
1975 I&#39;m Aaron Florence a professor Carl
apparently my former professor of art
history and today a world renowned
scholar of Leonardo da Vinci well he
asked me if I could find some
technological way to unfold the five
centuries old mystery related to a lost
masterpiece by the another da Vinci
battle viniera which supposed to be
located in the whole de 500 in palazzo
vecchio florence well in the mid 70s
there were not great opportunities for a
bioengineer like me especially nearly
and so i presided with some researchers
from the united states and university of
florence to start probing the murals
decorated by bizzarri on the long wall
so they hold the 500 searching for the
lost film Aldo unfortunately at that
time we did not know that there was not
exactly where we should be looking
because we had to go much deeper in and
so the research came to a halt and I was
only taken up in two thousand thanks to
the interest and enthusiasm of the
Guinness family well this time we focus
on trying to reconstruct the way the
whole de 500 was before the remodeling
and the so-called cellar grande which
was built in 1494 and to find out the
original doors windows and in order to
do that we first created 3d model and
then with thermography we went on to
discover hidden windows this of the
region windows of the whole of the
salah&#39; grande we also found out about
the height of the ceiling and we managed
to reconstruct there for all the layout
of this original how the way was before
the came bazaari and restructure the
whole thing including a staircase that
was very important in order to precisely
place the developer Gary
on a specific area but one of the two
walls well we also learned that bizzarri
was commissioned to remodel the whole
the 500 between fifteen sixty or 1574 by
the grand duke a consumer the first of
the Medici family we have at least two
instances when he saved masterpieces
specifically by placing a brick wall in
front of it and live in a small air gap
one the trini human searched the Church
of Santa Maria Novella in Florence so we
just said well maybe it was that he has
done something like that in the case of
that is a great work of art by Leonardo
since he was a great admirer Leonardo da
Vinci so we built some very
sophisticated radar antennas just for
probing boat walls and searching for an
air gap and we did find many on the
right panel of the east wall an air gap
and that&#39;s where we believe the bell
Vangie are you at least the part that we
know has been painted which is called
the fight for the sender should be
located well from there unfortunately in
2004 the project came to a halt many
political reasons so I decided to go
back to my alma mater and at the
University of California San Diego and I
proposed to open up a research center
for engineering Sciences for culture
heritage and in 2011 we create season
3&#39;s research center for culture heritage
specific architecture in archaeology so
students started to flow in and we
started to build technologies because
that&#39;s basically what we also needed in
order to move forward I go and go and do
fieldwork we came back in the hall the
500 in 2011 and this time with a great
group of students and my colleague
professor Parker customer who is now the
director cheetah 3 and that we came back
just since we knew already where to look
for to find out if there was still
something left well we were confined
though limited i shouldna they say for
several reasons that is not worth
explaining to endoscopy only of the many
other options we had
and with a 4 millimeter camera attached
to it we were successful in documenting
end up taking some fragments of what it
turns out to be a reddish color black
color and there&#39;s some beige fragments
that later on we run much more
sophisticated exams xrf x-ray
diffraction and the results are very
positive so far seems to indicate that
indeed we have found some pigments and
since we know for sure that no other
artist has painted on that well before
Buzzelli came in about six years later
well those pigments are definitely
related to mural painting and most
likely to live at well we are searching
for the highest and highly praised the
work of art ever achieved by mankind as
a matter of fact this is by far the most
important Commission that Leonardo has
ever had and for doing this great
masterpiece he was named the number one
artist in Florence at that time I had
also had the privilege since the last 37
years to work on several masterpieces as
you can see behind me but basically to
do what well process for example state
of conservation see here face of the
Madonna of the chair that when just
shine a UV light on it you suddenly see
another different lady aged lady I
should rather say there is a lot of
varnish still sitting there several
retouches and some over cleaning it
becomes very visible but also technology
has helped to light new pages of our
history or at least to update pages
about histories for example the lady
with unicorn another painted by raffle
well you see the unicorn a lot has been
said and written about the unicorn but
should take an x-ray of the unicorn it
becomes a puppy dog and no problem but
unfortunately continue with the
scientific examination this painting
came out that raffle did not paint a
unicorn did not painted a puppy dog
actually left the Pentium finished so
all this writing about
the exotic symbol of the unicorn
unfortunately it&#39;s not very reliable
well also authenticity just think for a
moment if science really could move in
the field of authenticity of works of
art there would be a cultural revolution
to say the least but also I would say a
market revolution let me add take this
example autumn our sales nice painting
which is still live by the video gallery
and just have any free camera peering
through and luckily for art historians
it just was confirmed that there is a
signature thomas&#39;s even says when it was
made and also the location so there was
a good result sometime it&#39;s not that
good and so again authenticity and
science could go together and change the
way not attributions be made by at least
lay the ground for the a more objective
or structures where they say less
subjective attribution as it is done
today but I would say the discovery that
really caught my imagination my
admiration is incredibly vivid drawing
under this layer brown layer of the
adoration of the Magi here you see as
handmade setting XYZ scanner with an
infrared camera put on it and just
peering through this blood layer of this
masterpiece to reveal what could have
been underneath well this happens to be
the most important painting we have an
italy by Leonardo da Vinci and look at
the wonderful images of faces that
nobody has seen for five centuries look
these portraits they&#39;re magnificent you
see Leo not at work you see the
geniality of his creation write directly
on the ground layer of the panel and see
this cool thing finding I should rather
say an elephant because of this elephant
over 70 new images came out never seen
through centuries this was an epiphany
we came to understand and
prove that the brown coating that we see
today was not done by Leonardo da Vinci
which left us only the only drawing the
foot five centuries we were not able to
see so thanks only to technology well
the tablet well we thought well if we
are have displeasure this privilege to
see all this to find all these
discoveries what about for everybody
else so we thought of a nog mental
reality application using a tablet let
me show you just simulating what we
could be doing any any of us could be
doing in a museum environment so let&#39;s
say that we go to a museum with a tablet
okay and we just aim the camera of the
tablet to the painting that we&#39;re
interested to see like this okay and
that we just click on it with pulse and
now let me turn to you so the moment a
the image or i should say the camera is
locked in the painting then the images
we just saw or the other drawing are
being loaded and so see we can as we
said we have zoom in then we can scroll
okay let&#39;s go and find the elephant so
all we need is one finger just wipe off
and we see the elephant
okay and then if we want we can continue
this flow and to find out for example on
the staircase the whole iconography is
going to be changed a lot of laman
reconstructing from the ruins of an old
temple a new temple and they&#39;re a lot of
figures showing up see this is not just
a curiosity because it changes not just
the iconography as you see it but the a
chronology the meaning of the painting
and we believe this is a cool way easy
way that everybody could have access to
to become more the protagonist of your
own discovery and not just be so passive
about it as we are when we walk through
endless rooms of museums another concept
is that reduce the clinical chart which
sounds like very obvious if we were to
talk about real patients but when we
talk about works of art unfortunates
never been tapped as an idea well we
believe again that this should be the
beginning the very first step to do real
conservation and allowing us to really
explore and to understand everything
related to the state of a conservation
the technique materials and also if when
and why we should restore and or rather
to intervene on the on the environment
surrounded a painting well our vision is
to rediscover the spirit of the
Renaissance create a new discipline
where engineering for culture heritage
is actually a symbol of blending art and
science together we definitely need a
new breed of engineers that will go out
and do this kind of work and and
rediscover for us these values this
cultural values that we badly needed
especially today and if you want to
summarize in one just single word well
this is what we&#39;re trying to do we try
to give a future to our past in order to
have a future as long as we live a life
of curiosity and passion there is a bit
of Leonard in all of us thank you
you
