
have you ever wondered what is inside
your dental plaque probably not but
people like me do I&#39;m an archaeological
geneticist at the Center for
evolutionary medicine at the University
of Zurich and I study the origins and
evolution of human health and disease by
conducting genetic research on the
skeletal and mummified remains of
ancient humans and through this work I
hope to better understand the
evolutionary vulnerabilities of our
bodies so that we can improve and better
manage our health in the future there
are different ways to approach
evolutionary medicine and one way is to
extract human DNA from ancient bones and
from these extracts we can reconstruct
the human genome at different points in
time and look for changes that might be
related to adaptations risk factors and
inherited diseases but this is only one
half of the story the most important
health challenges today are not caused
by simple mutations in our genome but
rather result from a complex and dynamic
interplay between genetic variation diet
microbes and parasites and our immune
response all of these diseases have a
strong evolutionary component that
directly relates to the fact that we
live today in a very different
environment than the ones in which our
bodies evolved and in order to
understand these diseases we need to
move past studies of the human genome
alone and towards a more holistic
approach to human health in the past but
there are a lot of challenges for this
and first of all what do we even study
skeletons are ubiquitous they&#39;re found
all over the place but of course all of
the soft tissue has decomposed and the
skeleton itself has limited health
information mummies are a great source
of information except that they&#39;re
really geographically limited and
limited in time as well coprolites are
fossilized human feces and they are
actually extremely interesting you can
learn a lot about ancient diet and
no disease but they are very rare so to
do to address this problem I put
together a team of international
researchers in Switzerland Denmark in
the UK to study a very poorly studied
little known material that&#39;s found on
people everywhere it&#39;s a type of
fossilized dental plaque that is called
officially dental calculus many of you
though may know it by the term tartar
it&#39;s what the dentist cleans off of your
teeth every time that you go in for a
visit and in a typical dentistry visit
you may have about 15 to 30 milligrams
removed but in ancient times before
tooth brushing up to 600 milligrams
might have built up on the teeth over a
lifetime and what&#39;s really important
about dental calculus is that it
fossilizes just like the rest of the
skeleton it&#39;s abundant and quantity for
the present day and it&#39;s ubiquitous
worldwide we find it in every population
around the world at all time periods
going back tens of thousands of years
and we even find it in Neanderthals and
animals and so previous studies had only
focused on my Kostka p they looked at
dental calculus under a microscope and
what they had found was things like
pollen and plant starches and they&#39;d
found muscle cells from animal meats and
bacteria and so what my team of
researchers what we wanted to do is say
can we apply genetic and proteomic
technology to go after DNA and proteins
and from this can we get better
taxonomic resolution to really
understand what&#39;s going on and what we
found is that we can find many commensal
and pathogenic bacteria that inhabited
the nasal passages and mouth we also
have found immune proteins related to
infection and inflammation and proteins
and DNA related to diet but what was
surprising to us and also quite exciting
is we also found bacteria that normally
inhabit upper respiratory system so it
gives us virtual access to the lungs
which is where many important diseases
reside and we also found bacteria that
normally inhabit the the gut and so we
can also now virtually gain access to
this even more distant organ system that
from the skeleton alone
long decomposed and so by applying
ancient DNA sequencing and protein mass
spectrometry technologies to ancient
dental calculus we can generate immense
quantities of data that then we can use
to begin to reconstruct a detailed
picture of the dynamic interplay between
diet infection and immunity thousands of
years ago so it started out as an idea
is now being implemented to turn out
millions of sequences that we can use to
investigate the long-term evolutionary
history of human health and disease
right down to the genetic code of
individual pathogens and from this
information we can learn about how
pathogens evolved and also why they
continue to make us sick and I hope that
I have convinced you of the value of
dental calculus and as a final parting
thought on behalf of future
archaeologists I would like to ask you
to please think twice before you go home
and brush your teeth
