
[Music]
you know when I see my nieces and
nephews posting pictures of them
partying online I&#39;ll worry about the
reaction of the future employers to
those pictures and I really worry about
this younger generation who seem to be
living their life online very publicly
but something happened recently that
changed my mind about it on December 29
the world heard about the death of a
young woman who was tortured and raped
by six men in a bus in Delhi I was angry
and frustrated sad is this the India I
want to come back to I wonder but then
something happened that has given me
hope can we have the slide please the
next slide the same people who partied
publicly also protested publicly I call
them billionaires of moments because
they made the most of every moment they
had with their tweets and blogs and
public protests if we wanted to see what
is the reaction of these people over a
period of time under the site
billionaires of moments calm two months
after the event much after any media
would have moved on there is still
activity going on even today almost
every 40 seconds there is something on
the social networking there is over 1.2
million searches on Google in one month
on an average even today the moment is
being kept alive and the reason I say
this is important is that there is a new
type of revolution that&#39;s happening in
India or everywhere around the world
just as we created a information
revolution by you know making them into
bits and sending them we are creating a
new revolution where these young people
around me seem to be breaking down the
idea the concept of a leader into small
bits and taking charge of it
there is a revolution happening bit by
bit
you know when I&#39;m in India I am
surrounded by huge issues you know
poverty rape corruption illiteracy you
wonder is there anything I do
that&#39;ll make any difference but the
young girl Jyoti what she did before she
died
taught me a lesson through her pain she
remember the names of every man who
raped her and told the world in detail
what she went through in living her
experience publicly she made it
impossible for us to look away so I we
created billionaires of moments calm as
a homage to her as a way to remember the
moment but I think we all have an
opportunity here maybe together we can
turn this website into a bank where we
each can create our moments and we
figure out how wealthy we are by the
amount of moments that we collect so
just as there is 400 lists of wealthy
people and the Fortune 100 companies
maybe someday they&#39;ll be a top hundred
list of billionaires of moments and we
all hope to be on it because these
moments are the new currency of every
country&#39;s imagination thank you
thank you
