
I first came to Arusha 35 years ago was
on my first journey ever to Africa I
hitchhiked from Nairobi the young
Tanzanian official traveling with his
wife who graciously offered me a lift
proved to be a more than willing and
eager conversationalist
in fact for much of the journey he drove
the Land Rover with one hand on the
steering wheel but his head turned
behind him to look at the young American
and engaging in conversation in the
backseat
now one product of this was that we
rear-ended the vehicle in front of us at
a certain point and damaged the radiator
for the rest of the journey about every
20 miles we had to stop and literally
beg for water to fill that radiator from
villages along the roadside they gave it
to us - that was the summer after my
first year of graduate school in history
and like a lot of grad students I wasn&#39;t
at all sure I wanted to go back I
figured I better get a look at the place
I took trains planes and automobiles and
wrote on the backs of fruit trucks and
tops of buses across parts of Kenya
Tanzania Malawi and Zambia I got my
first looks at there&#39;s the record of the
actual journey I mentioned a moment ago
but I fortunately got my first looks at
slides we probably don&#39;t need that much
around here but at Kilimanjaro and at
Victoria Falls the places I saw were a
revelation to me but even more so were
the people I met people who seemed so
different from the stereotypes that I
had grown up with people of generosity
in humor it is true but also people with
with stories stories intertwined with
the history that they had lived through
that their ancestors had lived through
with all that had led them to the
realities of their lives in the newly
independent countries in which they
lived I became convinced that this place
in these stories
could be
a life&#39;s work I went back to grad school
and in time I suppose I became an
historian now you may be thinking at
this moment oh my god he&#39;s going to
Boris the tears with a series of cliches
about why we should study history and
it&#39;s true our defenses of the craft
often do run too cliche I remember a
graduate student graduate school seminar
with a great historian and the best
teacher I ever had who in the first
session allowed us first-year students
to prattle on and on and on about how
the pass holes of a mirror to our own
time and how history repeats itself and
how those who ignore history are
condemned to repeat it
he listened to all of this very
patiently and took a big pool in his
pipe at the end they said that&#39;s all
 history&#39;s just interesting
that&#39;s all and indeed it is none more so
than the longest human history of all
the history of Africa that you&#39;ve just
heard so eloquently described still
we&#39;re drawn to these these epigrams
these simple statements about what it
all might mean my own favorite comes
from the American humorist Mark Twain
who once said that history doesn&#39;t
repeat itself but it rhymes but it
rhymes what I&#39;d like to seek for the
rest of my time with you or some
episodes from Africa&#39;s past which might
offer a rhyme with our moment now the
rhymes are of course imperfect I seek
the rhyme of here with there with then
with with now I think one thing that is
clear even in the first hours of this
conference that one thing that brings us
together is a sense of possibility now
in Africa the imagination of what might
happen what could happen in tomorrow&#39;s
Africa so I offer you some vignettes of
other moments in African history which
seemed to suggest possibility and I
asked what might have happened what if
my examples are drawn
or three they are drawn from the
sixteenth century from the nineteenth
century and from the twentieth the first
case is the encounter between two
medieval period feudal style teams one
was Portugal the other was the kingdom
of Kongo usually spelled with a k and
located actually in the northern reaches
of today&#39;s angola just south of the
mouth of the great Congo River now we
all know that the decades around the
Year 1500 marked a fateful divide in the
history of the whole globe symbolized as
well as anything like Columbus&#39;s voyage
across the Atlantic by the voyages of
Diaz and de Gama
around Africa into the Indian Ocean and
on to Asia from that point forward much
of the world for better or for worse the
Americas Asia and Africa would have to
deal in one way or another with a
European pressure of presence which
seemed to grow by the decade at home I
have a cartoon by the American
cartoonist Larson who has a rather sick
sense of humor and it shows the
Columbus&#39;s three famous ships sailing
away from the shoreline of somewhere in
the Americas and there&#39;s a group of
Native Americans American Indians on the
bluffin and one of them says to the
others did you think there was something
ominous and the way they said see you
later because of course they were seen
later and sooner rather than later in
many cases now the Portuguese first
landed in Congo in 1490 what did be fine
they come to a fairly classic example of
a late eighth Iron Age state in Bantu
Africa the Congo Kingdom had probably
emerged in the late 1300s based
ultimately on a consistent surplus
production of food manioc maize fish and
so on not just copper but excuse me not
just iron but copper was mined
expensively and industries of pottery
and textiles flourished local and
long-distance trade utilized a
well-regulated currency based on calorie
shells politically there does seem to be
a resemblance with a feudal Europe with
lesser Lords recognizing those sometimes
challenging a superior monarch
known amongst the Congolese as the money
Congo who excuse me I&#39;ll come to him in
a moment the money Congo who ruled from
a hilltop capital self-confidence and a
healthy sense of Independence seem to
have been characteristic of these
Congolese for their part the Portuguese
were interested in two things
cultivating Commerce and extending
contracts Cuse me and extending
Christianity so far so good the first
king or many Congo who had to do the
Portuguese was in zynga Akua but I want
to focus on a successor in zynga member
who ruled from about 1506 to 1541 this
party because historians love evidence
and we&#39;ve got a mother lode of it here
symbolized by 22 well-preserved letters
dictated by Zenga member still held in
the Portuguese archives as prosperous as
Congo was in many respects in vain
defense that the Portuguese were on to
some things themselves and he wanted to
obtain the advantage of them it&#39;s also
true that he saw an allied to shore up
is sometimes shaky internal position he
proposed something like a partnership of
equals a relationship of mutual benefit
he converted to Christianity with
certainly a move expedient but his face
does seem genuine as it comes through in
those letters he wanted literacy and he
sent young men to be educated in
Portugal one of these was his son
baptized Henrique who studied in Lisbon
in Rome and in 1518 was consecrated by
the Pope as the first Roman Catholic
bishop of Congress in zynga was
particularly interested in European
shipbuilding and in the carpentry and
design that lay behind it in another
letter to his brother King as these
letters were invariably addressed he
asked for two physicians to apothecaries
and one surgeon to glean what he could
from Western medicine though such
assistance was promised at the
Portuguese in very little of it
materialized despite the fact that ins
India sent the promised on his side of
ivory and early on and ominously small
numbers of slaves captured from regions
outline the borders of his kingdom but
the demand for slaves increased sales
increased exponentially
Portuguese traders made their own deals
with in fingaz vessels and the Congolese
king observed the gradual corrupting
effect of the whole sorted operation he
attempted to control reduce or even stop
it to no avail the most gut-wrenching of
his letters refers to quote thieves and
men of evil conscience whose Portuguese
and African whose corruption was so
great that the country is being utterly
de Pape y elated we beg of your highness
to help us in this matter because it is
our will in these kingdoms that there
should not be any trade in slaves nor
market for slaves
Zynga died the solution his dream of a
genuine partnership with his brother
King a shambles what if the insatiable
demand for slaves of the new American
colonies had not overwhelmed all other
enterprise with so many Europeans and
Africans engulfed in the traffic of
humans as property how might a history
of Congo turned out differently for my
second case let&#39;s fast forward three
centuries at our second search for a
rhyme this time I encounter in the
southeastern fortune of what is today
Nigeria the Atlantic slave trade of
course came to an end in the middling
reaches of the 19th century thank God
that this did not spell the end of
commercial contact of course between
Europe and West Africa Europe of course
was in the midst of its own Industrial
Revolution and one of the products which
came to be valued was palm oil used
initially can be used for many things
but used primarily to lubricate the
rapidly multiplying machines of
industrializing Europe the petroleum era
had not yet dawned in this period some
remarkable West African entrepreneurs
are raised to organize enterprises to
take advantage of these new market
realities there is a an irony here in
that the palm oil region is almost
exactly the same place where the
petroleum industry in Nigeria is is
based today now a fascinating example of
the sorts of entrepreneurs I mean is
jaja of a cobalt in southern Nigeria the
Delta of the Niger River the area known
as the oil rivers
jaja was a former slave himself who had
risen to become a sort of merchant king
and achieved a monopoly of palm oil
supply to counter what he saw as a
European monopoly of shipping on the
other side as historian Basel Davidson
has put it
jaja quote mattered modernised in every
way he could uncork he persuaded one
European shipper to break ranks and
began to pursue the possibility of
organizing his own shipping lines to and
from Europe to cut out these middlemen
as you might expect this did not
entirely please the British trade
council down the coast to the latest in
another era jaja might have been seen as
an irritant but this was the 1980s the
1880s and new winds were blowing we are
on the eve of the outright European
colonization of Africa the council went
to a po-boy town in the HMS crosswalk
with 77 British sailors but more
importantly 24 cannon he trained the
cannon on a public town and invited
jaja to a quote negotiating session once
onboard jaja was transported along the
coast to the gulf coast colony given a
summary trial and exiled to the West
Indies no less a figure than Lord
Salisbury himself the Foreign Minister
of Britain at that time it soon to be
the the Prime Minister most firmly
associated with the colonial expansion
how that these are his words in other
countries it would be called kidnapping
what if jaja and others like him for he
was far from a lone had not been
eclipsed by a far more aggressive phase
of imperialism my third moment of
possibility is much broader and not
nearly so biographical I refer to the
period of a decade maybe a dozen years
decade and a half beginning in 1960 and
moving us forward to about the middle of
the 1970s these years of course marked
the the first years of independence for
most of Africa most African countries
the exceptions being the settler
colonies further to the south I choose
this moment because I encounter rather
frequently at least in America the
assumption that independent Africa
was a disaster a basket case virtually
from the start that African societies
and indeed African leaders and
governments could never really prove
that they can deliver that they can
perform that they can improve and raise
the quality of life I would like to
argue that in many parts of Africa that
assumption is false
popular expectations of a better life
had surely risen during the heady days
of nationalist anti colonial agitation
but within a few years scholars would be
talking about the crisis of rising
expectation engendered during the heyday
of those national moments but the
surprising thing to some people is the
expense of which these expectations in
the first 15 years or so were actually
met the results were impressive GNP per
capita for all of sub-saharan Africa
grew every year in the 1960s and every
year in the first half of the 1970s the
GNP per capita in Kenya increased 30
percent in the first ten years after
independence in 1963 that of the Ivory
Coast doubles in the 20 years after
their independence in 1960 most
impressive of all perhaps African
governments kept their promises to
improve education and health care
between 1960 and 1980 sub-saharan school
enrolment percentages rose by over 50
percent at the primary level over 500
percent of the secondary all the new
nations built universities which had
hardly existed before independence
countries like Tanzania made concerted
efforts to give rural populations access
to clinics infant mortality rates
dropped life expectancy rose I saw all
of this on the ground in the early mid
70s in Zambia you know the new currency
they adopted there after independence
was called the kwacha the dawn which
seemed to capture perfectly that senses
of exhilaration and it was still very
much alive in the middle 70s now for the
second time I&#39;m going to use the phrase
as we all know because as we all know
this didn&#39;t last in Zambia or elsewhere
the dawn clouded over
the reasons were several for one the
international economic climate which had
been buoyant through the 1960s shifted
sharply announced by the so called
shocks of 1973 and for the terms of
trade turned decisively against primary
commodity producers and that surely
included most African nations one thing
that had not changed was a dependency
forged in the colonial period on the
export of a few primary products as
economic conditions tighten so surely
did the political almost everywhere
regimes became more authoritarian at
best their returns towards relatively
open one-party States as here in
Tanzania at worst for despotisms and
tyrannies where corruption and greed
replaced commitment and development as
the order of the day the sorts of things
which prompted Chinua Achebe no less to
pronounce Nigeria&#39;s problems at one
point as being the result of and these
are his words simply and squarely a
failure of leadership what if the state
dominated top-heavy economies
diversified better had diversified
better and were better able to withstand
these downturns in world economic
conditions
what if Africa&#39;s civil society had been
strong enough to expose and limit the
misuse of power I will close I have
offered three episodes in Africa&#39;s
history which might suggest a rhyme with
the present moments of opening of
possibility there I say it moments with
hope for progress for development the
way forward in each case was closed I
leave it to others here at this meeting
to suggest the pitfalls which lie ahead
of this now people far closer than I to
realities on the ground and
internationally I do suggest as we try
to find our way forward on that road
that we take an occasional look
backwards but not while you&#39;re driving
thank you very much
[Applause]
you
