
hello everybody so I will present to you
the work we make with big tunes the
first African animation studio created
on Africa and only one making films
short films and a magic TV series the
studio has been created in 1998 there
were no animators on the continent
everything has been made from nothing
you will see some world-class animation
I will see a short film the first
African animated TV series ever produced
in Africa and also feature film
world-class animation presenting the
first African superheroes I will present
to you the first film an extract of the
general assembly of diseases a film
about a very funny films let&#39;s start
[Music]
good people of contaminobo welcome
[Music]
welcome to the courtyard of chief
tuberculosis whose cruelty has been ok
the second is track is Kabongo the gray
of the first animated TV series of a
produce in africa let&#39;s start
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
vodka kebab oh okay
third strike is the future teamwork we
are developing right now presenting the
first African superheroes and the film
about soccer we will see maybe for the
for the soccer world cup let&#39;s start of
the pictures
sucker
yeah
[Applause]
