
[Music]
my parents were part of a generation
that belief in the possibility of the
topia so they were part of a revolution
both believe in a better Cuba and in a
better world I was emotionally educated
on those beliefs then I grew up and I
saw the contradictions between the
official Cuban propaganda and reality
I saw the complexity amongst government
arguments and my own personal
experiences I decided to become an
artist my art navigates between the
topic and the real meaning the promise
and accomplish it is about the political
imaginary but what define my work and me
as an artist was something that happened
20 years ago and I have kept since then
I felt today was a good opportunity to
share it with you in 1993 I was a young
artist who decided to do a newspaper as
an artwork I invited all the artists
critics to join the collaboration for
the newspaper and this work took the
live on his own so people started to
read a photo copy and distribute it
everywhere the authorities took notice
of this I think what wasn&#39;t acceptable
for them was not so much the content of
the newspaper itself but the gesture I
have done which is actually proposing
independent press this was 20 years ago
and still today an illegal act
immediately the Arts Council coming very
gently to advise me please to not
further in this newspaper
the project and of course as soon as I
left those offices I run to a printer
because I was actually in the process of
finishing the second issue which was
even more political than the first one
my father at that time was an ambassador
and he was called back in to take care
of this little problem he came to my
home told me please give me all the
remaining newspapers and say let&#39;s go
for a ride we got in the car he brought
me to a house were two officers of the
secret police for Minister of the
Interior we&#39;re waiting us so they could
interrogate me in front of him I never
reveal of course who printed the
newspaper or where I was doing this I
knew this will have consequences I look
at my father
I could understand the expression on his
face but we left in silence and never
talked about this it was then when
censorship became the core of my work it
was then when I understood the
difference between art that is done
about politics and that that is done in
a political matter I that works
politically
what was interesting my been in that
place was and when nobody was talking on
the microphone it almost felt that the
whole space and the whole energy became
a monument to avoid left by a leader
sometime he also felt like a monument of
collective fear I feel this is the
expression that says best what this is
about what this experience was about
somebody come to the station say I hope
one day freedom of his speech doesn&#39;t
have to be a performance well you just
saw was not a rally was not a political
rally was not an activist moment it was
one of my performances it was during a
international art event in Havana one
minute of free speech and open
microphone in Cuba means something else
people say for the first time in public
after 50 years things that were not
there to say unless you were a very
close friend they were saying in a very
slow voice and with a lot of fear only
in an air event it could only another
vent could provide this space for
freedom this is why I believe so
fiercely and so intensely in art as a
nation for social change art as a
rehearsal for reality art as a way to
leave the future
this event is spill out of the art scene
into the street people are talking about
it he even became a kind of an urban
legend and it was very funny when I had
some of my neighborhood approached me
seeing saying like have you heard what
happened recently somebody put a
microphone and people are saying crazy
things and I&#39;m not there to imagine what
happened to those people and I think yes
I know but this art piece will not
happen in the same way if you were done
before or after that precise moment
because it responded to a specifically
political tension this kind of art is
what I call political timing is specific
item politics have many things in common
they both imagined the future they both
use use emotions and manage the power of
symbols I&#39;d like politics affect people
and I am interested in that space where
they both coincide so we can transfer
social effect into political
effectiveness in my work I try to stay
situations that look real as real as
possible so that people who are in the
audience in the role of you know a
passive audience can transform into
active citizen this happened in a museum
these are not actors this is the Mounted
Police to whom I gave the instructions
to use the crowd control techniques with
the audience of the museum it was an
unannounced performance so people
behaved freely and accordingly to their
own social conditioning according to
their own political memories and
experiences this is what I call our
today conductor behavior art or
conduct art this performance was
repeated six times and only once only
one person asked and questioned the
police action my art is done
realistically and become part of reality
our reality is changing is becoming
mobile and global but for that new
global world we also need to build a
global Civic Society globalization
should not be only about economy but
about the freedom and rights people have
to move into the side world and when
they want to contribute with their work
and their knowledge in a global world we
should all be citizen because dignity
has no nationality but these days
objects cross borders with more rights
and protection than people immigrants
are censored they can be complete as
persons because they are not allowed to
have rights they are not allowed to be
political subjects this is why the
project I&#39;m working on right now is
building an immigrant movement
international the way we work in it is
we use our activism we in which we
combine creative knowledge with
practical knowledge in order to create
the political knowledge but to do
political art is also to do ID that talk
to the politicians
it is also to enter their territory I
was recently invited to the United
Nation as a cultural expert to work with
others on the first cultural rights and
speak artistic freedom of his speech
document I heard so many different
reiteration of censorship from so many
different places and with so many
different justifications that I make me
remember my father I finally made sense
of the expression on his face when I was
interrogated by the State Police on our
last conversation he said I&#39;m proud of
you I learned from him that confronting
censorship make us stronger and I hope
he understood with my work that art is
useful that through art we can start
building a world that works differently
thank you
[Applause]
