
[Applause]
the situation in Palestine is a
multi-faceted problem encompassing
economics healthcare education and
politics echoing the problems in other
neighboring Arab countries however
almost everybody focuses their full
attention on mending the political
situation which overshadows other
problems and neglects Palestine most
precious asset its human capital my
approach however is to seek solutions
for relatively less complex problems
such as brain function one of the major
challenges in healthcare in Palestine is
the very high prevalence of clinical
depression affecting around 40 percent
of the population in the West Bank in
Palestine which is estimated to be
around 1 million 60,000 Palestinian
depressed patients in a population 65%
of which is under the age of 24 it
becomes clear how prevalent depression
is in Palestine when we compare it to
other countries can you imagine what
would life be like in the u.s. if 40% of
the population is affected by clinical
depression aside from the public health
epidemic of mental health disorders in
Palestine other problems stand in the
way of a solution including the very
high degree of social stigma associated
with treatable mental disorders
inhibiting people from seeking
healthcare and the insufficient number
of mental health professionals available
for the care of those affected by mental
disorders the problem does not stop here
though but brother is compounded by
other problems in brain power with
limited to non-existent capacity for
biomedical research and a growing brain
drain where the best and brightest
Palestinians are tempted to move abroad
to pursue their careers
such a complex problem however failure
is not an option
give me the young genetically uniform
population
unlike the melting part of the USA and
the very high number of unmedicated
patients can we turn all these problems
into advantages for advancing bring
health and bring power in Palestine in
2009 my colleagues from Alcott&#39;s
University and Rutgers Newark and I
started building the infrastructure and
capacity for improving and promoting
pulsing in brain health and brain power
through the Palestinian ear science
initiative based at Alcott&#39;s University
in a Buddhist a town in the West Bank
just outside Jerusalem with a group of
very motivated medical students doctors
and faculty at Alcott University whose
aim is to ford&#39;s research and well-being
in Palestine through an integrative
approach of training research and health
care we are training the next generation
of Palestinian medical biomedical
professionals in cooperation with elite
institutions worldwide we have a
fabulous team of 40 researchers
specialists and therapists who are all
forwarding brain health and brainpower
in Palestine we&#39;re also conducting local
but internationally recognized research
and Palestine focusing on the on mental
disorders in order to better understand
that recently and for the first time
ever we managed to delineate the effects
or the the impact of antidepressants on
cognitive function which can
revolutionize treatment and has
worldwide applications we&#39;re also
educating patients and their families in
order to better understand their illness
over the past four years we managed to
help 400 patients and their families
receive proper diagnosis and treatment
and know more about their disorder our
program makes and will continue to make
formidable contributions to health care
and education while creating
powerhouse for neuroscience research in
Palestine in order to stop the brain
drain with few natural resources and
very modest space the future of
Palestine cannot be based on politics
but rather on its most precious asset
the human capital building brain power
to improve brain health which can turn a
dusty empty dark room four years later
into a room full of energy motivation
and individuals who are willing to make
an change and shape the future of
Palestine thank you
[Applause]
