
my talk today is about technology for
people with disabilities and more
precisely for deaf people deaf people
cannot listen to music the mobile phones
to audio announcement and even alert
about 80% of them and particular and
development countries do not have access
to education at the other hand
information and communication
technologies have the potential of
making significant improvements and the
lives of this person and this context I
am working since several years with my
reserve team at the University of Tunis
to develop the project to obtain aiming
at breaking the silence of death web
sign is a project based on Avatar
technology the software translates type
a text into real-time and online sign
language as you see here we write the
text this project is for death and the
avatar translated automatically into
sign language its demonstration
remark here that to obtain an official
translation we need a dictionary
containing a large number of science and
this is a complicated task and very
costly it needs time financial resources
and mainly sophisticated skill in
programming avatar for this reason web
signs offer the solution and this is the
originality of our program that we offer
an interface very easy to use and
without requiring any sophisticated
skills just with a few clicks any user
can create science with the mouse as you
see in the demonstration we can make any
sign we can choose the hand
configuration from a predefined a
predefined set of initial configuration
of the hand we can also play the sign at
any moment and we can include facial
expression since sign language is not
only hand movement but also for
precision and meaning we need to use
facial expression as you see here when
we make the sign and when we save it and
the dictionary the platform generates
automatically a program that animates
the avatar and like this we can make any
dictionary any number of dictionaries in
sign language is not Universal and there
is many sign language for instance
American Sign Language tunisians and
language French sign language and so on
in fact web sign is a huge platform that
enable us to make any dictionary and to
turn to translate text to any sign
language and based on this main platform
we developed other applications that I
will present for you some of them too
I start by a course generator of two to
learn and teach sign language this
generator produces multimedia content
including text image and avatar science
this is a sample of such courses that we
produce it with our generator we have a
list of topic on the Left we choose the
topic and we click on the image we
obtain at the sign here for example how
we say arrived we go to topic
communication I will say good morning
another topic environment you see here
how we say it
house how we say hospital this is
hospital and before living time two
exercises here is a question I will try
with the audience what does what does
design mean you have three shows house
school or Hospital I repeat the sign
house school or Hospital who said house
writer Huntley&#39;s yes you&#39;re very smart
remark here that such content is not
useful only for deaf people but only but
also for lives around the communities
and for hearing people I moved out to
another application that we developed in
our lab is mm a sign and how we enable
communicating with deaf people through
mobile phones and here a big challenge
because you know to communicate with the
deaf person through mobile phones there
is many problems first a deaf person
cannot speak cannot hear second I remind
you the problem of literacy so many deaf
person cannot read text message and also
for hearing people who want to
communicate with with
people and if the hearing people cannot
speak sign language even with 3G it&#39;s
difficult to communicate with mobile
phones for this reason our application
MMS sign converts type a text and to
convert a text message converts
automatically an MMS containing the
translation of the message and sign
language I give you an example for
example if they have a meeting with the
deaf person and I cannot be on time and
I need to tell him that I will be late
so I write him a text message I will be
late that he will receive that he will
receive as an MMS containing the
translation of my texts and Salang which
he is the MMS he opened the MMS and you
will see the translation of I will
arrive late and MMS so such that I can
I can send him a message and my language
and he will receives he will receive his
a message and his language moving on to
another announcement to another
application is the announcement service
for death and here let me tell you a
story that happened to me I don&#39;t speak
any word of German and ten years ago I
was riding a train and Germany when we
arrived at that station and suddenly an
announcement and a public announcement
was issued over the loudspeaker suddenly
everyone and the entire train had gotten
out but me I didn&#39;t understand what
happened I waited a little bit then just
to be safe I got out too but believe me
at this moment I felt like a deaf person
and I recognized it deeply the problem
of being deaf person in such situation
and for this reason we developed the
service to ensure accessibility to
public announcement to deaf people
thanks to this application any audio
announcement could be defuse it the
mobile phones in the area and mms and
language through Wi-Fi 3G or Bluetooth
to give you a context imagine for
example a deaf person in an airport and
a public announcement of change of gate
was issued is issued and over the
speaker so the deaf person like me in
Germany he has no chance to understand
what&#39;s going on however thanks to our
application the same message can be
diffused simultaneously as an MMS such
that all these persons and the area have
the chance to access to the information
this is the translation of the treatment
of the gate and finally the last but not
least application is a GPS service for
deaf as you see here and the animation
all Direction related to royalty to
writing and a vital information are
described and sign language and finally
to conclude my presentation I would like
to say that we developed all these
applications in order to contribute
towards improving the life and the
quality of life of people with
disabilities I believe personally that
the disability is not a problem then an
accessible environment and non
accessible technology is the problem
my final scent is that it&#39;s my personal
dream and the dream of all my team to
make our technology available for free
for all deaf people all over the world
and we will be more than happy to
collaborate with anyone and any everyone
who wants to help in breaking the
silence of death thank you very much
thank you
