
forests are portals to places of peace
both outside and within us I&#39;m a forest
ecologists I study rain forest canopies
and I&#39;m passionate about sharing my
understanding of forests with others
especially with those who can&#39;t visit
nature themselves in one group are the
incarcerated those who live at an
enforced distance for our natural world
in 2004 I started a project to bring
nature and science education to prisons
in Washington State in partnership with
conservationists inmates learned how to
raise endangered frogs and butterflies
and prairie plants really helping to
save these species from extinction this
project has expanded to over 90 prisons
across the United States but I soon
realized that there&#39;s a population
within prisons that I couldn&#39;t include
because of security reasons those who
live in solitary confinement the prisons
within prisons how could I bring
nature&#39;s benefits here well in other
places that are stressful and nature
deprives such as hospitals for examples
studies have shown that when patients
can view trees or view trees tree images
their levels of stress go down and so I
began to think that perhaps we could use
this in solitary confinement cells where
nature is nowhere but when I offered
this idea to prisons in Washington State
the officers perceived this activity as
coddling the prisoners and so they
blocked my efforts well in 2010 I gave a
TED talk about this idea and to my
amazement two years later I got a phone
call from a security officer at the
Snake River correctional institution a
maximum security prison in Oregon he saw
my talk and he wanted help to try to
implement this intervention in his
institution so I gathered a
multidisciplinary research team to find
out whether seeing and
viewing nature imagery could result in a
reduction of stress and a reduction of
violence for our pilot experiment we
used a cell block that was divided into
two halves and in the exercise room of
one half the officers installed a
projector to show nature videos and for
the inmates on the other half of the
cell block no videos were shown inmates
could choose one out of 38 videos that
we had to watch while they exercised for
one hour every other day and after a
year we interviewed those inmates we
found that ninety percent of them felt
that the nature imagery intervention
caused an improvement in their moods
they felt a reduction in agitation and
an irritability and an increase in calm
eighty percent of them said that they
were able to take that sense of serenity
back with them to their cells our staff
surveys revealed that staff thought that
this that ninety percent of the staff
thought that this intervention did calm
the inmates but something unexpected
happened something that we weren&#39;t
expecting the officers were able to
cultivate the ability to observe the
inmates before they got agitated and
they offer them extra time in what they
called the blue room the room of the
videos and so therefore diffuse
potentially volatile situations so there
was a shift from relying only on
punishment to mindful II using peaceful
conciliation and this in this situation
probably the most remarkable result was
that those inmates who saw the nature
videos committed a twenty-six percent
lower number of violent infractions and
this translates to 13 fewer violent
infractions over the year which is a
substantial reduction given that nearly
every event like that results in the
injury of either the inmates or the
staff or both and so we are our results
really I think right now
our preliminary but they are promising
already prisons in the states of
Washington Oregon Nebraska Wisconsin and
Alaska have adapted or adopted this
intervention but as one of the inmates
wrote on his survey this intervention is
not an overall solution too confining
human beings over extended periods of
time something that we do to two million
Americans but I think that it is it
sheds some light in the darkest parts of
incarceration it recognizes the power of
nature on the nature of humans and in
this violent world it provides a small
but very real portal two piece thank you
you
