
some people are moved by sunsets the
Grand Canyon a child&#39;s birth weddings
for my mom and me it&#39;s marching bands
true there is nothing like some drums
and horns marching in their feathered
sequin glory to get us simultaneously
laughing and weeping but in all
seriousness what is it about this medium
that so easily tugs at our emotional
core it&#39;s the magical togetherness it&#39;s
a group of people moving and sink in a
spirited outcry of public expression as
an artist and designer I&#39;m not
interested in expressing my individual
internal battles i&#39;m interested in
extracting a collective voice in my
practice I look beyond just making
cool-looking posters and websites to
designing new ways to bring people
together the value of human connection
also known as social capital is what
moves me to create I organize a
community bike ride to encourage voter
participation in providence rhode island
by travelling a route designed to spell
at our message
we engage in a form of collaborative
communication hands up has become a
symbol of the black lives matter
movement my South Bronx students and I
designed protest science that allowed
individual statements to be part of a
collective demand for justice and change
I was inspired by the kula tradition of
the mill and bay region of Papua New
Guinea where social solidarity is
created through the circulation of gifts
amongst islands via canoe I wanted to do
something similar in the United States
so I somehow convinced my friend Melissa
that we would carry gifts of art across
the country but instead of canoes we
would use one of these we made it around
the block and obviously chose regular
bikes instead our project the gift cycle
United 12 plus communities across the
United States we started in Providence
Rhode Island where we picked up works of
art from local artists we then biked the
art to Brooklyn exchanging it for new
work the art exchanges continued across
the country all the way to seattle at
each community event artists gave a
piece of art and received a piece of art
no money involved just gifts a single
artist tap became a community beat
became a nationwide pulse a network of
200 artists participated like a marching
band on the move a narrative of
togetherness emerged through the gift
cycle people shared a piece of
themselves with someone they had never
met the theme of gifting also revealed
itself through unexpected acts of
generosity by people we met along our
journey for example Byron Celia is a
ceramic artist working out of an
abandoned gas station and desolate
Wyoming boomtown he offered a shelter
and contributed a beautiful piece of
pottery which became a story of a
forgotten place after biking in 2 30
mile an hour headwinds we arrived in
tampa kansas
Mayor Jim clemmer and 15 locals treated
us to a huge meal though not an artist
himself Mayor Jim ripped a favorite
piece of art of his wall and said
another artist had to have the flavor of
Kansas the world lost Mayor Jim next
year but his Kansas still lives on a
message gains value when it is
physically transported rather than
instantly received via text or email we
were two women writing 75 miles each day
for two and a half months to bring art
from one community to another across the
United States one artist that
contributed to the gift cycle said it
was the altruistic sweat that made it so
meaningful altruistic sweat perhaps or
maybe expending creative energy together
just feels really good I build social
capital with communication design I&#39;m a
maker of objects and experiences to
enhance our sense of interconnectedness
communication design was born to sell
products and designing for large
corporations can help a creative person
pay her bills but I want to bring people
together around more than bubbly corn
syrup drinks let&#39;s expand the purpose of
communication design to benefit our
communities and relationships in new and
unexpected ways thank you
[Applause]
