
and here for more than 700 years the art
world led the human civilization and
tote where mathematics astronomy
chemistry physics sciences and arts
flourished and reserved the human
civilization contributions which really
was the origin of the Renaissance and
the modern civilizations we live in
today but in the modern times the other
world find itself on the margins of
history not much contribution to the
world as the spread of the Western
colonization around the world most of
the Arab nations were colonized by
Western countries in the early 50s the
many of the Arab countries they start
receiving their independence but
unfortunately they found themselves
under the rule of dictators military
dictators woulda came to coup d&#39;etat in
our Arab world and so they found that
they changed the operation of Colin ISM
by the abrasion of homegrown dictators
and these dictators they ruled they are
a world over the last several decades i
was born in libya only few months after
my country received its independence by
a vote in the United Nation after a long
war against the occupation and the first
few years our country have seen a growth
and development with a focus medication
so I was one of those lucky ones who is
able to be educated early on in my life
immediately after I finished high school
in 1969 a coup d&#39;etat brought a young
lieutenant 26 year old lieutenant to the
leadership of Libya by the name of Mar
Mar Gadhafi&#39;s 1974
I was one of the top students at the
University of Tripoli and I was given
the opportunity to go a study abroad and
I did take that chance and I went to
study at Caltech in 1975 I left Libya
going to study and it came back in 1979
to visit my family which turned out to
be the last time I will see them for
many decades with that be in 1973 he
starts the so-called Cultural Revolution
he started to get the power in his head
and he starts showing his colors and in
1980 he sent his assassins to Europe to
kill the opposition leaders the first
one was shot in London only south of
this place I joined the opposition and
of course I made the wanted list so I
could not go back home for more than 30
years until the revolution in 2011 for
42 years Gaddafi ruled the country and
only one man spoke and everyone else
listened and who dares to speak will end
up either dead or in prison the Libyan
will never forget the holy month of
ramadan in 1984 where their children
they will hang it on the streets across
the country and their home they were
demolished and the executions were
broadcast live on TV to spread the fear
among the people of Libya or they will
never forget in 1996 the night where
twelve hundred and sixty people were
massacred were killed in a prison in abu
salim prison for 42 years Libyans were
imprisoned enslaved and killed at whim
and our country was completely destroyed
in 2011 2010 december two thousand ten a
young street vendor in Tunisia
set himself on fire capturing the
decades-long frustration and oppression
and that has changed everything in our
part of the world by setting himself on
fire he said the whole Arab world on
fire be able they took to the streets
the citizens of Tunisia they went to the
streets demonstrating and that demanding
the fall of the regime and their
dictator for 21 years he fled the
country that evil in Egypt went to the
streets through Tahrir Square and over
all over the country and again under the
state or in only two weeks if let he he
came down from from his place and then
the turn came to my country libia but
was a very long fight it was an eighty
eight months of cell and thousands of
young people of people were killed to
gain their freedom so finally in October
23rd 2011 Libya was liberated our people
finally they gained their freedom this
is a celebration that took all over the
place we will show happy finally after
decades and decades of oppression
finally they are afraid so this is
exactly what took place in our country
in the end of 2011 I was asked to join
the first interim government as a debit
Prime Minister and I accepted the honor
to serve my people we came in as a
government with the weight of decades of
unfulfilled dreams and also we are very
keenly aware that whatever we do will
set the tone and the direction for the
future of our country it is quite a task
but we thought that we are in a position
to help shape the future for our country
so we start by doing small things small
things to promote transparency
government accountability this is
something we never had in our part of
the world
so we said as a government we start
publishing all our meetings minutes our
plans our decisions and we told the
public we&#39;re going to do this at this
time and we would like it to hold us
accountable we want you to be in power
we&#39;re here only to serve you they never
heard that so so this is where we
started but of course the expectation of
our people that things since we brought
down the dictator why things does not
change the next day so everyone in the
Arab world share it the same thing it is
in Egypt in Tunisia it is in Libya and
of course everybody ask it what is next
now the dictators are gone so what is
next worse and of course because of
decades of oppression a dictatorship all
the people the world they throw the
Arabs they want something different not
really we want freedom for our family we
want better future for our children
would like to live in societies where
dignity and Liberty is reserved that&#39;s
what exactly we want but of course after
the dictators they came to their knees
the things that we found out clearly
that we still have the same problems we
have the legacy of the dictators now we
have this we have to fight against the
legacy of the dictatorships in 2012 we
in the live Olivia we had held our
probably first election in 50 years
android the first transparent election
period our people they were so proud for
this literally almost ninety percent of
the people who are eligible to vote they
say is registered and seventy-five
percent of them went and really voted
they stood in line for hours and hours
and then they were showing their fingers
as you can see these young girls here
they&#39;re so heavy because they are so
proud they want to show the world that
they have exercised their right
something which we are denied for more
than 50 years that means almost every
liberal is living they never
participated in elections
and I went to one of the polling
stations and here&#39;s a lady who&#39;s 95
years old was coming out and I just
asked her who did he vote for she said
really I really don&#39;t know who I was it
for I just wanted to vote because I want
exercise my right and this is the spirit
that our we will have and of course this
good well this excitement they were
looking for the future is really what
made us move forward in our case if you
look at the Arab revolutions in general
if you look at them then what is the
reason for it yes it is oppression it is
lack of freedoms it is a corruption all
of those but really one of the major
causes is really is the opportunity
deficit for our young people we have
young people who are graduated from
universities but there is no jobs for
them going with first time or the Libya
was writing a taxi and I will talk about
this young man he&#39;s at the essay I have
a master&#39;s degree in engineering but
there is no jobs for me i&#39;m driving a
taxi so so if you look at the
unemployment rate this is the published
number is thirteen percent in Egypt 19
in Tunisia Libya is twenty percent and I
tell you I was in the office I was in
the government and Libya unemployment
rate is more than forty percent is not
two hundred percent almost a quarter of
the Libyan people they receive a salary
from the government there is no other
jobs available for them now but if we
look at the the the universities in
Egypt a graduate about 700,000 in
Tunisia 80,000 70,000 Libya how many
jobs are available for them I don&#39;t
think there is anything available for
them so clearly we have a serious
problem an employee with the problem so
I&#39;m going to call this one here is a big
e problem that we have and for a big d
we need a much more powerful e to solve
this problem of course he is not an
energy to the employment here and so I&#39;m
proposing a three major strategies and
Pollack them e to the third power
this is will fulfill some of the major
code for our our revolution without
bring hope and overcome the despair that
our people event this either detail
Bowser stands for education at your
ownership and economics nothing in you
for you but very new to us and also to
the solution for all these problems
deliver the world education the
indication of course we we have large
university systems we have hundreds of
thousands of young people are graduated
but really they are not them have the
skills and the tools that will meet the
requirement for the job so clearly we
need to have huge project training
programs to reach all those be able to
educate them to give them that I tools
will be able to be instead of graduating
unemployment with real people who
declared jobs also we need to reach
transform and reform our educational
system from top to down we have to
remove the traces of the container ship
that is implanted in our education
system our children their creativity
suppress you cannot ask questions in the
classroom you have to listen you have to
memorize it is it is not used we cannot
think there is only one thing in the
country and of course he has 10 pages
titles and one of them is only one
thinker in the whole country this is the
education system that we have inherited
and also clearly that&#39;s something which
I know firsthand there was a professor
from gineering a university president
for cut some time I didn&#39;t know the
difference between our educational
system and the decay systems the world
our beta people deserve better the
second thing is intrapreneurship our
young people whom usually sometimes they
count for two-thirds the population in
our countries those who they are listen
that younger than 35 years of age they
are very creative they are very
innovative and they are very passionate
about their future but you have no
opportunity in the past so we need to
create a support unit e for them we need
to get into bro-nation programs built-in
into our dedication of system we have to
have unique images centers where people
can go and find
people who they are smart you can find
support they can find the grants they
can find everything they need to be able
to develop their countries we want to
also to succeed and also to fail
sometimes in the Arab culture failure is
something which is shameful we have to
change that we want them to learn
failure is a route to success and and so
so clearly and also the same time we
would like we would like yourselves who
are watching like this who they are
great interbrew successful people I want
you to come and join and thought without
people and you will find you&#39;d be
surprised by the talent that you&#39;ll see
in front of you the third E is economics
but not specifically is really economic
development zone that we need to create
the reason for this because our
country&#39;s first of all we inherited all
these answers from dictatorship error we
have an archaic and none sensible is the
laws and regulation system they cannot
allow anybody to do anything so we need
to edit fixing them to going to take us
some time but we can do we can come and
make these zones will be able to set the
right laws and regulatory system the
right infrastructure to make them
success successful so our young people
they find they will go to develop
international companies come in and be
able to do that and this is which is we
need in our country and of course as you
know over the last few decades some of
the successful economies in the world
they have searched from that Malaysia
super corridor they do by free zones
Singaporean and a Chinese development
zones all of those are really successful
stories and we need to do that in our
countries really I am a believer of
starting you know parallel institutions
that&#39;s the only way we can deal with
inaudible in the Arab world because
otherwise we are cannot fix the system
that we have inherited so this is
clearly the e to the three power does
not solve all our problems but clinical
sort of the most important problem that
we are facing and in the in the Arab
world and also in other parts of the
world now clearly we have an opportunity
we have a window of opportunity in the
Arab world and this
when to continuously keep shrinking and
if we don&#39;t take advantage of this we
don&#39;t get the advantage of the goodwill
of our people our be able by bringing
down dictators they felt that they can
do anything if they can get together and
they are and I believe they can and they
well and and and and also at the same
time if we don&#39;t do that we are
successful then clearly we might go back
into another of your story regimes led
by extreme and radical governments and
so so we are at the Arab world we are at
a crossroads either we succeed and it
creates societies where liberty and
dignity is reserved where governments
are transparent and accountable where we
will they live in societies which is
really have a vibrant middle class who
they really prefer and they have
something to Italy for something to
protect and something to to really give
to their to their children so we are in
our Arab world I think we have a chance
again we&#39;re going to be successful and
we will be will be once again a place
for advancing civilization and it was
going to become a beacon of hope and
inspiration to the world thank
[Applause]
