
[Applause]
at the better tank farm we like to have
fun with nature i co-founded this design
farm because of our interest in creating
biologically inclined constructs we now
operate out of what a la jara and New
York City and design things such as
plush toys inflatable creatures water
gardens and ice palaces the range is
wide but they often share one thing in
common they all have been stuffed their
skins have impressed with soft and
supple material building architecture
out of soft elements is a challenge but
repressurizing the skins we are able to
build walls and canopies out of
transient materials and put them to work
in unexpected ways membranes can be
filled with gases liquid gels and other
soft mediums to produce strong and
resilient building blocks we call these
elements pressurized membranes in 2010
in 2010 blow puffs protected visitors a
union square manhattan acoustically and
visually from the exuberant environment
of the city upon entering through a low
opening your body was forced to remain
in contact with its soft ground enticing
you to lay down relax and mingle kids
had a blast crawling into a secret
hideout this loosely moving aside great
Spanish moss discovering a soft interior
they transported them to a world far
away from union square we design a
lightweight transparent membrane which
when inflated becomes uninhabitable
pavilion air that become structural
supporting a fragrant crown of
eucalyptus leaves and a tapestry of
Spanish moss transforming its interior
interior into a naturalized atmosphere
verbal bub a summer pavilion would build
a governor&#39;s island in new york city use
two types of membranes plastic for
inflatables and nylon mesh for sausages
the sausages were stuff would lose
woodchips allowing us to sculpt specs
eating and structural walls out of what
would normally be a large pile of
compost the interesting thing about
working with pressurized membranes is
that over time they react to changes in
temperature and friend and pressures
apply to them the forms were created in
verbal bolts evolved in ways we never
anticipated the sausages became alive
with the new york moist summer sprouting
mushrooms and all kinds of organisms the
inflatables they made up the canopy grew
enormous asses they&#39;re out of control
behinds affected the canopy unexpectedly
make it a more dynamic due to the
friction and tension between the
resilient bus designed to be played with
the pavilion came alive when filled with
people punching petting it and hugging
it pressurized membranes have allow us
to explore new architectural
possibilities we are proposing new
environments using liquids and gases as
architectures fundamental building
blocks to challenge what it means to
build the Ice Palace speculates from the
combination of pressurized air died
water and an extreme cold environment to
create colorful eyes sausages their
structure as well we also design a water
garden basically a garden growing on a
waterbed where the ground is capable of
rippling at the lightest touch your
experience of the garden is completely
transformed as you jump on a vegetative
membrane causing ripples of sod and
flowers to emanate from your feet as we
continue on this journey of bridging the
natural environment and architecture we
want to expand our work by pushing our
memories towards leaving systems what if
this memories encourage growth and allow
for the natural environment to take over
imagine giant gelatinous bodies that can
nourish and shelter an entire crop of
fish their gelatinous walls will
accumulate lives and become floating
ecological reefs
they can they can follow currents and
ties totally taken on a life of their
own this material explorations are
simultaneously engineering marvels as
much as they are fantasy experiences and
drink spaces it is with this magical
environment that we will continue to
bring happiness and pleasure to our
built world thank you
[Applause]
