
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
hello
[Music]
okay okay yeah this s place like I&#39;m
thinking about me my powers back when I
was soo young
I got to put that into the vestry
neighbors who are taking this one safe
to walk a connector from my kitchen told
me when I was little
first the cocky little shit
let go ghetto keep little okay Mikey uh
she uh she I keep fucking Hoshi Hoshi I
just poked away work work work work work
okay okay okay okay okay
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you so much we are called the
triplets ghetto kids and I&#39;m the spoken
person of the triplets thank you for
coming
some of us we are from Street some of us
you have disadvantaged family yeah but
in music and dance and drama this is
where we get school fees food and
medical care we danced a song which went
viral more over than 25 views on YouTube
and we realized in that song but we lost
one of our lead brother Alex by a
bicycle accident he was with me but he
died and I survived just because of your
prayers thank you so much and we are
here that in music dance and drama this
is where we get everything we have and
in every year our manager gets two kids
from Street and now we are so grateful
that you called us here and you are so
happy with my brother thank you so much
because this is what we get music dance
and drama
this is where we get school fees and
everything we are so thankful thank you
so much
[Applause]
