
[Music]
[Music]
Oh
[Music]
good morning ladies and gentlemen my
name is Salim Amin and I am an African
those images of Ethiopia changed the
world
they prompted the greatest act of giving
in the 20th century they changed the way
governments and NGOs operated in Africa
and other developing continents more
importantly they saved the lives of
three million people let me say that
again they saved the lives of three
million people I grew up with those
images they were taken by my father
Mohammed Amin he covered this famine and
every other disaster on this continent
for four decades he died negotiating
with terrorists aboard a hijacked
Ethiopian Airlines plane that crashed in
the chemours
a decade ago but this was not the Africa
that he loved or he or that he wanted to
portray nor the stories that he enjoyed
doing don&#39;t get me wrong he lived for
the world exclusive he lived for the
scoop it was like a drug to him but he
loved the people the culture the history
and the beauty of Africa more my father
had to struggle to get these images
covered in the international media
immediate that had no interest in Africa
even in the catastrophic famine and the
desperation of these European people
twenty years ago he made a speech in the
United States while receiving one of his
many awards for the Ethiopian famine
coverage he said you may find it hard to
believe now but when my first report
about the famine in Ethiopia was offered
to Europe and America&#39;s broadcasters
they turned it down but when the viewers
saw it they proved beyond all question
that they were not as small-minded as
some of the people that run the media
the power of television news could not
be demonstrated more clearly
but there is a responsibility that goes
with that power we fail in that
responsibility if we do not report the
often horrendous problems of development
facing the people of Africa we must
report them courageously and without
favor if we can do that then we can
trust the people of the world to see
that their governments will take their
responsibilities to the third world
seriously and if that happens I believe
the day will quickly come when no child
man or woman anywhere need ever go
hungry to bed
or starve to the grave he was making a
plea to the West to take responsibility
for their commitments to the developing
world 20 years on I am asking Africans
and anyone interested in Africa to take
our responsibility to our continent
seriously by raising the voice of
Africans reporting on Africa for
Africans I would like to share a vision
a dream it&#39;s called a 20 for Africa 20
for the first truly independent
pan-african 24-hour news and information
channel a voice for Africa by Africans
but a commercial entity that will prove
that we can set up a successful business
model that will not only tell the real
story of Africa but will also be a
commercial success the footage that you
saw at the start is an extract from a
documentary Moe and me that I made last
year my journey back into discovering
who my father was and why he did the
things he did I lived with the legend in
the world of the media and frankly I had
no idea how influential he was until he
died but I followed in his footsteps
in spite of him telling me to get a real
job it&#39;s important that some of the
biggest African stories of the 20th
century were covered by an African what
my father taught me was that Africa can
only be covered by Africans and he
proved it time and time again he knew
this continent like no other journalist
definitely better than any other foreign
correspondent he had an unmatched
contacts book
and he could he made sure he got in when
no other journalist could while some of
what he achieved makes me very proud
some of the stories that he covered and
that made him famous do not make him do
not make me and did not make him proud
we&#39;ve been talking about the damaging
impact of the stereotypical portrayal of
Africa in the media that the photos that
my father took still represent much of
what people think of Africa 20 years on
reflecting the typical images of Africa
that we continue to see on international
news channels starving children with
flies in their eyes executions genocide
is one of the key challenges that we in
Africa face we can only combat that
trend if we have true influence on what
is reported covered and said about
Africa and hence we need our own
independent high profile professional
news channel in a world with perhaps too
many 24-hour news channels you may be
asking why we need another one the
answer is Africa doesn&#39;t have one we
have 900 million people on this
continent we don&#39;t have a voice we
continue to have to rely on the
international media to determine what is
newsworthy in Africa to shape our own
vision of ourselves India alone for
example has 32 24-hour news channels we
have heard CNBC and s ABC being
mentioned as pan-african channels are
welcome these initiatives but they&#39;re
not fulfilling the role that I envisage
CNBC is an excellent business channel
but it is not African owned an S ABC is
largely South African focused and a
South African government funded in my
opinion it&#39;s compromised we are
different in every corner of this
continent we have different histories
different cultures and many many
different languages but we need to talk
to each other we need to understand all
these differences we need to share our
successes and we need to jointly fast
fight our problems and our failures many
of which are similar HIV malaria
education corruption human rights
outside of a local outside of local or
national news a medium doesn&#39;t exist at
the moment to inform Africans about
their own continent news from other
countries come sporadically mostly
through non African sources which as I
said before mainly focus on a negative
news agenda we in the media have the
power to influence millions of people
and make a real difference in my ideal
Africa we would have our own voice one
that might not be United may not be
popular may be downright disagreeable
but it has to be African the a24 media
project represents a milestone for
Africa a company that will establish a
continent-wide 24-hour news and
information channel that will change the
face of African media the channel will
train hundreds of journalists set a new
and balanced African news agenda
communicate relevant information about
health care the environment business art
music sport and other cross-border
issues we will create economic
opportunity and develop a new vehicle
for educational and social programming
already from my father&#39;s passion stemmed
the Mohammed Amin foundation a broadcast
training school that I set up in Nairobi
nine years ago to train African
journalists to the very highest levels
of broadcast journalism this school
proves to me year after year the immense
talent we have on this continent and
while I&#39;ve been watching these sessions
with with huge interest over the last
three days I&#39;ve been thinking of all the
features a 24 will do on the remarkable
people and companies present here I
guarantee you that most Africans have no
idea of the wonderful thing the
wonderful things the Africans here are
doing they need to know the channel will
offer breaking news multifaceted
analysis and a platform for sharing
ideas between Africans from across the
continent a lot of people I know and in
previous presentations that I&#39;ve made on
this topic are shaking their head saying
how is this possible it is possible now
because of advances in technology unlike
previous attempts in past decades a 24
will rely on 46 low-cost high-tech
bureaus
around the continent the channel will be
transmitted into rural Africa on a
variety of platforms including
direct-to-home satellite platforms the
internet radio and most importantly cell
phones the signal will be offered to all
terrestrial broadcasters on the
continent free-to-air mainly because we
never get paid by the moon if we did
build them revenues will come from
advertising global satellite
subscriptions sponsored programming and
the sale of content international
broadcasters a private equity company
has been set up in Mauritius and a
poison pill has been put into the system
to ensure that no investor and no
shareholder will ever own more than 20%
of the company thus ensuring its
editorial independence an essential for
the credibility of this channel the
impact of this channel enormous on every
level of society will be empowering
Africans to speak their vision of the
past present and future of Africa
uniting and opening a dialogue if not
immediately with the rest of the world
then is very least around the continent
we will empower Africans with the most
powerful tool in the world knowledge and
we hope the channels presence and
reporting will create an impetus for an
impetus for good governance both in
public life and in commerce Bono spoke
earlier about the need for good
governance about democracy on this
continent in my opinion none of this is
possible without a strong independent
media to hold those politicians and
those people accountable
[Applause]
I started as if I was addressing an a a
meeting for many Africans for many years
was almost embarrassing torn up to being
an African no more we are proud of what
we have built in and have achieved and
the last 44 days here have been proof of
this many of you around this room can
and are helping to make this channel a
reality stand up and be counted
Africans cannot live on words our time
is now thank you very much
[Applause]
