
my story begins in the jungles of Papua
New Guinea Papua New Guinea is renowned
for to profound biological and
linguistic diversity scientists have
recently found a frog with giant fangs
pygmy Paris and four foot long rats in
Papua New Guinea Papua New Guinea is
also a nation where over seven hundred
languages are spoken my love and
interest in Papua New Guinea was
motivated by my love and fascination
with diversity as I arrived on the banks
of the sea pic River I came and met
members of the crocodile tribe as you
can see male members of the crocodile
tribe engage in a male cutting ceremony
what was fascinating to me was the fact
that members of this tribe also haunted
crocodiles not just during the day but
at nighttime how would they see the eyes
of the crocodile in the middle of the
night I got in a canoe with members of
this clan and they pulled out their
mobile phones use the lights from their
mobile phones and mirrors and found the
eyes of the crocodile these are mobile
phones without without any connectivity
without any credit on them this creative
and powerful local use and adaptation of
technology is deeply inspiring to me now
indigenous technologies are not just in
Papua New Guinea this might seem this is
an Aboriginal drawing it might seem
simply like an Aboriginal drawing also
of a crocodile from North arnhem land in
Australia but it&#39;s actually an
indigenous technology of a map
Aboriginal people through what they
describe as their song lines actually
locate through Dreamtime their landscape
their land is sung into being by their
ancestors and this actually functions as
an indigenous technology which Maps
people across time and across space an
early example of an indigenous
technology was created by the Incans
this is known as the kinky Incan key
booster proverb map it&#39;s a string map
the Incan people would actually
literally run string across different
villages and cities within their empire
and as they would run the string it
would encode different types of messages
based on what string they used and who
ran the string this in my mind is an
example of an early network like an HTTP
protocol and in early MySQL database
ultimately what are these stories
telling me they&#39;re telling me to respect
the profound diversity of local peoples
and tribal peoples tribal peoples are
not defined simply based on where they
live but the knowledge they have that
knowledge they have encodes different
understandings of the world this is a
term I call ontology in my research
ontology czar reflected in language
Inuit and eskimo people have over 60
words for the word snow in the English
language reflecting a deep cultural
understanding of that concept or of that
entity but the killer question to me is
whether we can take these understandings
and apply them to the ways we think
about modern computational technology
the ways we design databases the ways we
design algorithms the ways we design
interfaces this is the question that
motivates my research thinking about
this question I was inspired to meet a
medicine woman I brought her sage I
brought her tobacco we prayed in the
four directions her name is Jane Dumas
she is the last living link for the coup
me I Native American people to their
traditions in their culture and as we
did these blessings Jane told me yes
there is a place for technology to
support our culture&#39;s to support our
diversity but we have to think about our
own ontology our own ways of writing
databases our own ways of designing
interfaces so this question inspired me
and Jane and I got to work her people
traditionally lived close to the sea
they were a seafaring people they were
agrarian people but because of the
establishment of missions and the
reservation system these people were
fragmented into the mountains dislocated
from their traditions and their
histories and from one another and this
is a GIS map I generated the Jan and I
were interested whether we could create
modern computational technology a corner
to these indigenous traditions in such a
way so as to network these communities
bring these communities back together
not just to their traditions and culture
but to one another ultimately this
involves building an ontology so people
came together across these different
tribes and design their own model of the
world their own ways of classifying
their own values their own priorities
their own metaphors and this became the
blueprint of the databases we designed
and similarly we created interfaces not
just in a standard user centered
interface model but according to tribal
metaphors tribal technologies in a
nutshell this is a metaphor of rebirth
it&#39;s a sacred manzanita tree and perhaps
most fascinating lee we see people in
this tribe 20 people in one room using
one computer it defies the model that we
have of technology one person per
computer one person per interface
instead what we have here are the
folkloric performative ritual traditions
of a community reenacting itself in the
context of technology that they were
involved in designing ultimately why
should we care about all of this well
for me we live in a world where there is
a profound loss of diversity in
languages indigenous peoples have led
the struggle against climate change
worldwide and it&#39;s up to us to think
about whether there&#39;s a way in which we
can think about technology in a way to
truly support diversity these are the
questions that I&#39;m continuing to study
and continuing to learn about and I&#39;m
continuing to be inspired by and I hope
to continue to share these stories with
all of you thank you
[Applause]
