
please welcome Rodrigo Baggio hi
everyone welcome to my beautiful city of
Rio de Janeiro I&#39;m associative on earth
and I&#39;m a very proud to be a social
defender and I start the assertion
defender in 1993 I was 23 years old I
was a businessman I have a technology
company successful and I began to
project myself in 10 years but I just
saw myself Richard not happier not more
fulfilled so I made a decision to
transform into change in my life and I
began to meditate in the reflect about
the next step in at the end of the year
I got the answer and the answer comes
through a dream I was sleeping literally
and I had a dream and in my dream I saw
young people people using technology to
understand themselves and understand the
reality in their community and use that
that technology to transform themselves
in their community in my vision I saw
everyone could be a change maker and
huge technology accelerate that so when
I wake up in another day I was so
exciting with this ring I know I&#39;m a
lotta martin luther king but i had my
own dream and with this vision this
inspiration i decided to vote my life to
change bedroom in reality and I starts
the first technology community center in
islam in rio de janeiro Santa mask Islam
one of the most violent Islam&#39;s in
Brazil in that moment a self-sustainable
self-managed technology Center at was
starting for the first time in 1995 and
we inventing the field of digital
inclusion in Latin America and we start
the first NGO about digital inclusion in
Latin America CDI the Center for Digital
Inclusion and we start to replicate our
CD I community centers and now we have
715 of
CDI community centers in 17th Brazilian
States in 10 countries more than 1.5 8
million people have been training in
technology and civic engagement
education to our CDI community centers
we want more than 60 international
awards and when we got to add a word of
course we are here to doing one week but
then their life champs again to normal
and the most important thing who makes
us fulfilled if sees our CDI
changemakers people from communities who
have their lives impacted and
transformers to the good use of
technology and one important CDI change
maker for me is her now the montero
cunado was the man who invented
kidnapping in brazil he was consultant
in innovation in criminality for the
most important drug dealers gang in rail
he was doing 14 years in the prison in
the last region we met in the maxim
secret vision and we decided to start a
CDI community center in his prison and
he starts to be our educator and he
changed completely his life he began to
be a role model in the prison he becomes
to be our coordinator there and he&#39;ll
leave the prison for good behavior and
he starts a CDI community center in his
community and he began to be a good
leader in his community and he become to
training technology more than 15,000
people in his community and he decided
invited his friends former prisoners to
learn technology citizens rights and
entrepreneurial skills and he helped 150
former prisoners start 100 entry in 50
micro enterprises condado now is a Shaka
fellow and he&#39;s a great example about
someone who have the life impacted to
the good use of technology we are
what promote this kind of transformation
is our CDI methodology our five steps
methodology in all of our classes we
train people in different technology
courses and we train people in our five
steps methodology the first step is we
stimulate our students understand better
about their reality in their communities
the second step is they will choose
together for a problem who they had
passion and then they you do a project
use technology to impact in transforming
this problem or this challenge and then
the step number four very important goal
to action we stimulate our students go
to action and we activate their
entertainer actor judge and then we they
evaluate the process let me give you
example in one of our schools in San
Paulo the first day of class 10 young
people leave the CDI community center
with smart phone and digital camera and
they interview the dwellers they take
pictures or video and then they came
back to see the a community center and
share the videos and pictures in that
case when you take a picture about rash
about big rats and all these students
decide about use the rats as their big
problem because their ex transmitted
disease and they they began to learn
through internet about why that kind of
rat is in our community and they are
learning about internet they realize
about the real challenge is not the rest
but the fact of people not organized the
garbage so learn about text editor they
begin to produce flyers and folders and
then distribute these files and folders
and create become to create awareness in
the community should start to organize
the garbage learn about PowerPoint
little speech in the community and do
you know what was the result at the four
months one hundred percent of the
community starts to organize the garbage
and then the rats disappear 10
young people using technology change the
awareness of all their community using
technology as a freedom to we are five
years ago we start CDI in London in the
UK and the process to adapt our
methodology took the UK reality was
great we began shoot training kids in
schools in how to do code how to develop
and prototype applications for a
smartphone should do good and was really
amazing we gained aside the process and
we select the best application from
teams of kids in all of the country and
we invited the 20 best one for the
annual award ceremony the city is for
good award so teams of kids from all of
the comes should London to
pitching for their application in last
year for example at wings against wings
won&#39;t our price and now we have in the
UK 250 CDI apps for good centres impact
the life of thousand people in the UK in
2015 our goal is scale up global the CDI
ads for good program in a big race
impact the life of more people to the
good use of cody and technology this
year we decide adapt again our
methodology in different way oh we
decide invited 200 people text
developers designers investors
entrepreneurs community leaders social
entrepreneurs to be doing 54 hours in
the first islam in brazil the
president&#39;s hill so we start a
partnership with the start that weekend
and we create innovation they start that
we can change makers so doing 54 hours
we accept show the four biggest problems
from the Rio de Janeiro islam&#39;s and we
challenge of this
people to co-create social business
using technology to impact them
transforming these four biggest problems
from the real Islam and was amazing
first because the the media in Brazil
comes in cover and spread awareness
about social business and the power
choose technology impact social problem
then people who was there talking about
they had a great transformational impact
in their lives being nice and they 354
hours inside the community and then we
award three social business and these
social business operational in 2015 our
vision is next March 2015 create two in
20 countries plans start that we can
change makers to inspire people to use
technology and social business to change
any reality and impact social social
problems these two examples inspire us
as a social entrepreneurs in the next
stage of social entrepreneurs and one
person who I like a lot and for Miss one
of the most important men in the world
it&#39;s build rhythm they are shot a
founder and the inventor of our field
social the social de ponerse field build
Raven vision for the future of social de
ponerse is what we call synopsis
entrepreneurs so synopsis entrepreneurs
working breaking down the walls between
their organizations in working my
alliance working partnership to promote
a social impact in another levels of
scalability so be a synapse
entrepreneurs is one important goal for
us in CDI and in civil sector and one of
our visions when we&#39;re thinking about
synapse entrepreneurs is a vision of a
new society where the people in civil
society becomes to be changed makers and
in fact there are a lot of people
thousand social de ponerse devoting
their lives to transform the reality
in our vision imagine a company&#39;s change
and become to be social business and in
fact we have great examples like this
system or B lad who promotes a new way
to predict the corporations operates or
the confuse capitalism&#39;s these new
companies the changemakers companies
will recall the capitalism system
imagine now politicians becomes to be
change makers politicians become to work
as a civic entrepreneurs and use
technology to create in rain inventing
our democracy and use technology to have
a new democracy with more at
Transparency and commitment with
sustainability imaginal kids in the
schools learning about how to dream and
how to change brings in reality next
kids in schools learn about how to be a
change maker this vision for us is
really very powerful and because we
believe everyone could be a change maker
and use technology to spread this this
vision to use technology to transforming
lives and develop community will change
our society in a society with more
freedom in a society with more
solidarity this is what we call each
tortilla ethopia so i would like to
invite all of you to be in these 8
popular movements and use technology to
inspire people this a change maker let&#39;s
start now this autopia revolution with
you thank you very much
you
