
once upon a time there lived a girl
named Elena she was an artist and a
freethinker and like mostly thinkers she
would refuse to accept the absurdities
of the political system in her country
instead she chose to mock them openly
but her country was communist Bulgaria
and freethought came at a price
at 19 the land was punished for speaking
her mind the regime that systematically
used psychiatry for political purposes
tried to discredit her and many like her
by labeling the mentally ill in those
times a mark of shame and destruction
the Liana was diagnosed with
schizophrenia a condition she did not
have the diagnosis also gave the regime
of her ization to routinely take her
away from her home and place her in a
mental hospital there she would be
forced to receive electroshock through
her brain without anaesthesia or muscle
relaxants while fully awake 5 10 20 50
100 apart from the brutal pain she also
suffered bone muscle and tooth damage
today we say that this is torture
dressed up as therapy it was performed
by a monstrous regime but allowed by an
indifferent society the liana committed
suicide at age 37 she was my aunt and my
best friend
when she died I was 17 my sadness was
swallowed whole by my anger it was this
anger that led me to journalism soon
after by dedicated years to undercover
investigations of state social care
institutions for people with
intellectual and mental health
disabilities across Eastern Europe these
are places where one is condemned to
spend their entire life often in a
never-ending eternal suffering I thought
children aged 7 9 10 who have never left
their crypts fading away from lack of
love I met people who were caged or
chemically restrained with harmful
medication I saw adults and babies who
were merely stored not treated punished
not helped until it was time to die
often in an unnamed unmarked grave it
took years of angry reporting until the
first institution was shut down after an
hour article I wrote but it didn&#39;t feel
like a victory more like a promise for
my own impending defeat change was
taking forever and I didn&#39;t have forever
to beat time I had to become we and we
had to become thousands so I moved to
activism first informally by joining
forces with other
passionate people in the field later I
co-founded them later I found that the
campaign&#39;s program of the leading human
rights organization in my home country
we led advocacy and awareness raising
campaigns on many human rights issues
and we would often team up with artists
in our effort to make the public care
and push with us for change just one
example this work is actually an
infographic about a number of children
with intellectual disabilities who we
found
in Vulgarian institutions for a period
of 10 years 238 the tulips represent the
different causes of death mow attrition
neglect abuse the Rays of the Sun spent
for the month months of the year and one
could clearly see that most children
died during the winter this image
gripped people by the throat and became
central for huge campaign leading to
thousands and thousands of signatures
demanding immediate justice and reform
this campaign ultimately filled a much
larger process leading to the current
closure of all such children in
situations in the country
when I think about the inhumane
suffering I have observed all these
years I have one question how did we let
this happen and I believe that we all
need to pause and think what else are we
allowing as a society that would shame
us in 30 years
is it the raging economic inequality or
the mass privacy violations or the
violent discrimination and stigma or the
people losing their rights freedoms and
lives for voicing an opinion for their
sexual orientation for their gender
religion or color the opposite of
diversity is not uniformity its
oppression the opposite of Justice is
not injustice its tyranny but humans you
and I we tend to normalize the
unthinkable and shrug at the side of it
that&#39;s the way things are nothing can be
done we rationalize the unspeakable
forgetting that foundations that might
seem unshakably strong today could
easily crumble why we sleep that our
comfort is fragile the dis concerns us
all
but all injustice is in fact personal we
need empathy to replace apathy but how
do we achieve empathy my answer is
through art my aunt remained an artist
until the day she died it was not her
paintings that the regime feared with
her words and actions however it failed
to see that it was art that kept her
life
I saw how art can heal but my aunt also
told me that it can inspire and
transform during the many nights in her
room stacked ceiling high with art books
we would sit beside her tiny coffee
table me in my PJs my aunt in her row
and we would discuss life and of an art
for hours from the castle through Goya
to the Beatles we would talk about how
art operates outside all norms how no
one can own it nor a regime nor a group
how it grips the heart art can achieve
things that information can&#39;t my aunt
would say and as an activist I have
observed that power many human rights
workers today struggle to translate
formidable issues into a language that
makes people care and compels them to
act mere facts and statistics don&#39;t do
the trick and neither do reports or
statements on their own art however can
be transcending connecting us to stories
and issues on a deeper emotional level
art can create a visceral response art
can make the distant feel personal I
believe it&#39;s time for an empathy
revolution a global movement for respect
equality dignity and justice for art we
need to bridge human rights and art as a
catalyst for social change to bring
activists and artists work deeply
together creating works that bring
awareness and in
fire action there already are amazing
examples of powerful art with purpose
but I believe that targeted work in this
direction could be one of the ways to
fix our society so this is what I
together with several like-minded people
have recently devoted ourselves to we
are in the very beginning of our work
but we already have projects like our
collaboration with photographer John
Lowenstein postcards from Ferguson this
is an interactive piece that creates a
simple way to initiate conversations
about the complex and often difficult
issue of race it invites people to share
their thoughts and feelings on racial
inequality and injustice with our
friends and family my favorite one is by
Tyrone a high school student in New York
City to Santa dear Santa I want a pony
and the riot shield years after her
death while flipping through my Ann&#39;s
journal I noticed one sentence it was a
question that my aunt had repeatedly
scribbled in between other thoughts am i
alive
it was a self-check the same way one
might perform a self-exam for cancer
except this was a Czech force tumor on
the sole do I still care the west young
matter am i alive I believe we are only
alive through others our heartbeat is
timed with the beats in other hearts our
story is written with words set by
others we have a voice only if we help
others speak and our power is measured
not by how many people we crush but by
how many we are able to lift and carry
on our shoulders we are the Giants our
future needs
an empathy revolution starts at the
heart so it challenge you to ask
yourself the question that my aunt asked
herself am i alive and what can I do to
make myself more alive today thank you
[Applause]
Jana
[Applause]
