
thank you good afternoon everybody so
honored to be here to share with you our
dream because we believe that when you
share a dream it can become a reality
now we all know that aids and HIV poses
a major threat to the future of Africa
and the world imagine if we could find a
universal language that would be able to
unite young people and help them realize
that they can turn the tide on AIDS and
HIV imagine if we could empower these
young people to help them self realize
that they have the potential to change
the future
dance for life is about rebranding AIDS
education to include their media their
icons their music and their dance dancer
life is about prevention through
educates mobilizing a million young
people to become agents of change this
dream is becoming a reality start
dancing stop aids dance for life so you
ready I&#39;m mom oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah
yeah yeah
you don&#39;t know Sunday
[Music]
great
dance is freedom down to the liberation
dances like by dancing for life young
people ask you and mean the part where
they move their bodies to move their
future HIV and a are the biggest threat
to that future this I as we can
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
welcome everyone the live connection
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
luckily the world information condom Kay
medicines love and protection please
don&#39;t let them dance alone
[Applause]
[Applause]
