
I want to talk about uh Nuka for what a
minute I&#39;ll tell you what that means it
is a story about getting away from this
stigma of negative letters usually
attached to people who differ from the
NAM the negative levels we often
attached to people whether consciously
or unconsciously can be very
debilitating so if you have ever been a
victim of negative labeling I&#39;m here to
suggest that it is possible to transform
them into Wellsprings of positive
inspiration to calm and same power by
the way I am Annika faux is the name my
mother gave to me at bat it&#39;s actually a
yellow word it means shut up my father
and only surviving son desperate to have
a male child married my mother as a
second wife in the late 70s after her
first child a girl in quick succession
she had another child it turned out to
be a girl again heads bowed in
disappointment songs worked and angered
by those angry responses she named me
Annika for apparently irritated by the
barrage of snide remarks from local
people just because she had a girl child
because my name was funny
I was always taunted by my peers when I
was growing up I have aged 7 or 8 I was
at a meeting to do something to end
behavior those of tonton I got from my
peers so I woke up one morning took my
eraser I wiped off Annika far from my
notebooks for my test books from my
choice and a few possessions that I had
and I change my name from Annika for two
in Hama Victoria these are names I found
on my Anglican
but is my certificate allama means the
pretty face that brings good luck I
noticed that when my name changed from
Onuaku for even more people suddenly
began to ascribe duties and even that
was not a very beautiful child I saw how
attitudes began to change I saw how hard
stances began to melt and increasingly
there was like greater cooperation
better appreciation of my talkative and
tenacious personality at that stage at
that age as young as I was I found out
that it is possible to transform ugly
situations I rescued us from realizing
our full potential today I&#39;m a lawyer
working for spaces for change an
organization I founded in 2011 drawing
from my childhood experiences we are
working to challenge and to shift the
negative narratives and labeling often
attached to slums and informal
settlements housing the poor and
low-income - who are unable to afford
the high rental accommodation in urban
centers for too long
dominant narratives in popular
literature have depicted slum areas as
Heaven&#39;s for criminality crime drug
abuse prostitution pollution squalor all
those negative things you can imagine on
account of these labels authorities use
them as justification to demolish the
homes of the poor to displace them from
where they live to exclude them from
decision making and hand over their
lands to the rich we all remember the
story of Michael yes
Morocco the same place we now know as
leaky Peninsula
to aggravate the situation addictions
and demolitions that are often very
unlawful and totally indefensible are
backed by compelling developments our
language and technical jargons now quite
unfortunate is very popular we want to
change that drawing again from my
experiences we&#39;re using some of the
techniques that worked for me when I was
a child so I asked you is there more
slums to informal settlements my answer
is yes so why using nicknaming
seems storytelling social media to
counter the narratives and to sell
project the other side of slums the
other side of informality the richness
of the diversity that exists in slums a
lot of talents reside in those clones
despite the challenging conditions that
they live
despite the inequalities we start
inequalities in access to housing
resources many of them are very talented
they are simply looking for portunities
to excel opportunities to become
opportunities to prosper just like
everyone else
so we&#39;re combining the digital
technology with traditional organizing
measures and power slum dwellers to
assess their presence to communicate
their concerns and their uniqueness in
the urban space who are what we want to
demonstrate that they are ever to
participate in policy discussions
advocate for reforms that work for them
I want you to know that lumps are packed
full of ordinary people just like me and
you they have needs
you have desires they also aspire to
live in a better place if they are given
an opportunity that will not live in
those areas but circumstances have
forced them to remain there we may not
all agree
where I must say one thing they deserve
to have a place to live even if that
place is as long and not only that you
have a right to live in the city and for
the sake of that right the desired
chance to remain and so vacum with
afternoon
[Applause]
