
food a common ground our universal
experience no matter who you are or what
you do we all eat food you don&#39;t job is
food available it&#39;s food affordable is
there food wastage if food is not
available
why are we wasting food second second
think about your dog VIN do you have
some leftovers here
what is the yearning of every Nigerian
3/1 we want good food we want fresh food
we want food that are pesticide-free
food not yet injected with heavy sides
much more than that we want food to be
consistent I don&#39;t want to eat miss only
the rainy season
I want maize even during dry season you
want to know that you can buy tomatoes
any time of the year but for the same
price you want to know that you can get
them any time of the year for the same
price such that every day is new yam
festival is that possible the answer is
yes aeroponics what does what does that
mean aeroponics is the ability to grow
crops in the air without the use of soil
we are able to grow the plant without
the soy element now you can plant
anywhere or you do not have enough land
don&#39;t worry we don&#39;t need a land
you just need space oh hi about waiting
for rainy season before I plant no we
are not dependent on season you can
plant any time of the year the picture
on your screen you have young green in
the air next to that you have tomatoes
green in the air this is in our era may
occur if a 45 minutes from is aware that
is about
from Michigan Logan states that is
tomatoes green in the air here you have
a sight off to the top left you have a
system before we planted to the top
right there you have the balls to show
that there is nothing inside there is no
soil or nothing inside bottom left you
have the bottom right you have the roots
of the plants and you realize that we do
not have soil in that place and to the
left we have GP tanks buried in the
ground that is the source of our
nutrients to feed the plants you can
also have the system even in your houses
in your offices meaning you can do
agriculture anywhere you don&#39;t need to
have a land before you can some you can
grow your own vegetable and the comfort
of your offices replace your flowers
with your vegetable someone with us what
are the benefits of a hydroponics one
label today if you want to start a farm
there is a fear of who am I going to
manage the farm with deliberative
microbes with aeroponics with just a
click away and your firm 10,000 plots of
land you just need one clicker a small
box of fun just sim clicker so your
label is way cheaper because the future
of Agriculture is not make a nice family
but automated family environment because
of IRA ponies technology you do not have
to use heavy site because what you did
not plant in the air cannot grow so no
need to spray herbicide to key the grass
with me the environment is safer for you
and me you don&#39;t have to use
insecticides because now you have a
cleaner environment for us and for the
future generation aeroponics ensure that
you get your food fresh so if you want
to get two methyls you don&#39;t have to
wander over this tomatoes imported three
months or five months ago I spent 10
years in the freezer no you can plant it
right in your house and you have fresh
food any time of the year I open expand
sure you get income generation how do I
mean if you have a plot of land that you
want to plant tomatoes you can only
plant tomatoes on one layer but remember
we plot in the air how far is the sky
really fir how high can you plants
you have so many layers so your one plot
of land can be equivalent to six plots
of land if you decide to do six layers
of planting it can become twice plots of
land if you decide to do swear layers of
planting beyond that IRA ponics ensure
that you get your favorites faster than
usual Tomatoes takes three months in the
soil in aeroponics it takes just one
month young takes nine months to twelve
more the penny on the size you want in
aeroponics it takes three to four months
let us take it about three months in a
row ponies you would harvest in one
month but it takes about three to four
months in aeroponics we have ever seen
who wants to get seven days what does
that mean now we can stop the the
headsman famines fight because you need
grass to feed them now you can grow the
aggressor in 70s and the conflicts are
out this is a little story how we all
started anybody when we started this is
the system before we plant ADM this is
three months data you can see the real
bush of young growing and here you have
inside the bosses we had to put a barrel
and a mark of a potency the length of
the eundel is about 1 meter length
mm to show that years it is possible now
food candle might not be a problem
because with aeroponics you can smile
thank you
[Applause]
