
[Applause]
in January 2001 upon my graduation from
Marine Corps boot camp I marched
straight up to my senior drill
instructor snap to attention and said
see your drill instructors we were like
features sir
he was short had braces Marine Corps
cover he spit at me and said well this
marine like you&#39;d look at this sort and
I handed him a yellow manila envelope
full of photos he pulled one out kind of
look like this lowered his head started
to shake and said oh Baca Baca I knew
there was something weird about you you
see I was a ballet dancer
before I joined the United States Marine
Corps I joined the Marine Corps to serve
my country to fight for those who could
not fight for themselves
and to face my fears the Marine Corps
taught me that if I go deliberately
decisively and aggressively in the
directions that make me afraid I&#39;ll
probably generate a positive outcome in
2005 my unit was given the chance to
test that theory we were sent to
Fallujah Iraq we were tasked with
patrolling the local villages armed to
the teeth looking for ghosts and what we
found instead were children fathers
mothers brothers and sisters luckily I
went with a bunch of Marines that wanted
to make Fallujah a better place and so
our missions slowly transitioned to
going into the local schools and handing
out school supplies to going out and
handing out food and water to the locals
we even tried to connect the village to
the base so that they could tell us if
something was going wrong
I got back from Fallujah in 2006 and
like most veterans I had a problem
transitioning back into civilian life
my girlfriend at the time sat me down
and she said you&#39;re angry you&#39;re
depressed you&#39;re anxious and she wanted
to help me so she looked at me and said
if there was anything in the world that
you could do what would you do and I
told her I&#39;d start a dance company she&#39;s
a ballerina
we started exit 12 dance company first
as a way for me to reconnect with art
and the people around me and then we
started telling the military experience
to audiences talking to them about the
friend the families and the loved ones
that were affected by the wars and the
disconnect between the US and the Middle
East we were doing this for about five
years and then two Marines close to me
committed suicide one of them was my
platoon mate in Fallujah I knew I had to
do more so I applied for a fellowship
with an organization called the Mission
Continues which gives veterans
fellowships to work in their communities
I partnered with an organization called
battery dance company and we had one
mission to teach individuals how to
communicate their experiences through
dance who had been affected by war and
conflict in April of last year myself
and another teaching artist traveled
back to Iraq as civilians we worked with
two groups of young people one group
from Erbil one group from Kirkuk one of
the group&#39;s was Kurdish one of the
group&#39;s was Sunni Shia Arab in the five
short days that we had with them we
taught them how to work together and
they choreographed a dance piece about
their experiences of conflict and their
hopes for a better Iraq we had the
opportunity to take this performance and
perform it for the community
240 people came as well as a delegation
from the US State Department at the end
of the performance little girls from the
village brought us flowers that they had
picked on the way and mothers asked us
when we were coming back and where we
were going next
a true testament to the power of art to
connect community in true Marine Corps
fashion I continued to go in directions
that make me afraid next year we&#39;re
going to Rwanda and hopefully
spearheading a program to work with
child soldiers from the Congo and we&#39;re
gathering a group or a squad of veteran
artists in the hopes that we can take
them back to Iraq and other conflict
zones so that they can teach their art
to those affected by conflict thank you
[Applause]
