
I&#39;m here to talk about a different type
of technology something I mentioned
earlier community radio many rural areas
in Africa are cut out from the processes
of communication both producing and
receiving information there about 51.2
rural areas in Nigeria which is a cause
for concern and these ruler areas are
often cut off from information this is
where community radio comes into play in
sub-saharan Africa and in a lot of
African countries community radio is
used as a tool to educate farmers about
the use of conservation farming as
against traditional methods of farming
one of such farmers is Agatha in Goma
who lives in rural Zambia she has had to
take up the responsibilities of taking
care of her family even though she&#39;s
married into a culture that enslaves
women to their husband before learning
about conservation farming Agatha will
build ridges to plant the crops but
because of drought there&#39;s usually poor
plant performance so at the end of the
season she makes very little if any at
all through radio Agatha lens crop
rotation how to burn residues of
transcript
the use of manure from livestock instead
of chemical fertilizers Agatha is one
African woman who has gone on to empower
and teach many other African women about
the use of conservation farming she
believes in the power of radio because
radio talk car washes me on anyways
there are many impacts radio has for
communities actually communities in
Nigeria and it&#39;s very sad to know that
Nigeria is lagging behind in
implementing community radio in the
media landscape another success story is
development
your project we started in Zimbabwe
because of how successful this project
has become the model has been
implemented in Uganda Tanzania and in
many East African countries then I asked
what is holding Nigeria back the impacts
of community radio community radio
mirrors the community to the world he
calls attention to the needs of the
people he allows the people see the
world for what it truly is allows the
people make their own identity and
construct their own reality community
radio is also the voice of the largely
marginalized those were our people
people like Agatha who do not have
anyone to help them out people that
don&#39;t have any other means of livelihood
people who are cut off from information
community radio transcends language
barrier with community radio you can
speak your local language meaning more
people are involved in information
sharing and content creation the
interesting part is those who control
the information are the rural people
themselves the impact also goes beyond
the community for the Nigerian media
landscape as a whole the presence of
community radio allows this country
competes other countries all over the
world
however consistency and being able to
adapt to a system is what makes for
relevance the presence of community
radio in rural community demonstrates
the aspirations the hopes the fears of
many rural communities especially in
Nigeria I would ask you to do one thing
for me when you go back think about how
you want your rural communities to be
better
think about your village because indeed
your village is rural and think about
how your people can be better farmers
better traders better fish fishermen by
listening to the radio thank you very
much
[Applause]
