
we have all experienced the feeling of a
good meal but have you ever wondered how
easy that our gut tells our brain what
we just ate my fascination with this
question began in 2006 I was a graduate
student in nutrition and I had a friend
that she shared her story of her
struggle with gastric bypass surgery to
treat her obesity
she told me that within six months of
the surgery she lost about 40% of her
body weight that was about half your
initial self we think one week of the
surgery her diabetes was gone she didn&#39;t
need more insulin shots but the part
that shocked me the most was that before
the surgery she said she couldn&#39;t even
stand the sight or smell of sunny-side
up eggs but after the surgery not only
she could eat those eggs she actually
had a craving for runny yolk eggs how is
it that rewiring the gut can alter our
minds the gut from the stomach to the
colon it has an internal surface and we
think there there is a lining of cells
one of those are these so called inter
endocrine cells that I prefer to call
them gut sensors they are rather tiny
but powerful in their absence we would
die of diarrhea but they are unique in
that they give the gut the ability to
sense they have some of the same
molecular receptors that allows our nose
to smell our fingers to touch and feel
and our tongue to taste what has been a
mystery until now it is how it is that
these gut sensors pass the information
from food and microbes onto nerves it
has been assumed that they only
communicate through the indirect
secretion of hormones but I believe
that they also can communicate directly
through physical connection through
synaptic links to put things in
perspective
Ackerman is like email you will be able
to reach out hundred targets but there&#39;s
no these personal communication whereas
a synapse is the face-to-face version of
communication you have the ability to
shake hands and receive feedback in
real-time
anok when it comes to sensing food you
can imagine that is the difference
between being anywhere and over it or
being hyper aware of food and under it
over the last seven years I have studied
these gut sensors using unique music
molecular tools including a mouse in
which these gut sensors fluoresce and
one of the things that I discover was
that right underneath the lining of
cells these got sensors had a very
unique extension an arm that I call a
neuro pot or neuronal food so I wonder
would new reports be the missing link
between gut sensors and nurse I devised
a series of experiments to be able to
test this idea and here&#39;s my favorite
one I call it a gut and a brain in a
dish on the left side you have in green
this gut sensor that has been isolated
by fluorescence from a mouse and on your
right side you have a neuron from the
brain of a mouse both of them have been
put together in the dish what is
remarkable is that they not only
recognize each other but they are able
to connect they give the ability of the
for the brain to be able to recognize
from the surface of the gut through a
direct physical path food and microbes
unfortunately they also open a path for
pathogens to crawl through this link up
to the brain and cause disease
in my laboratory we&#39;re using modern
molecular tools like viruses to be able
to track this connectivity from the gut
to the brain because I believe that
without information our ambition is that
we will be able to use nutrients with an
intentional purpose to be able to treat
the brain from the gut thank you
[Applause]
