
[Applause]
good evening my name is Jerry Lynn
Johnson and I am an orchestra conductor
since the age of seven when I saw my
very first classical concert and fell
instantly in love with Beethoven
classical music and orchestras have been
my entire world so much so that even as
my teenage friends were dancing to the
music of people like Madonna and Michael
Jackson and Prince I was rocking out to
the hot sounds of the great maestro&#39;s
like Sir George Schulte and Herbert von
carrion and Leonard Bernstein so once I
got old enough to pursue my
international maestro lifestyle of
jet-setting and racecar driving I began
to learn and hear that classical music
critics and composers were bewailing and
by moaning the impending death of
classical music somewhere looming on the
horizon the truth of the matter however
is that orchestras have known for quite
some time that their core audiences were
dwindling what they didn&#39;t realize until
the League of American orchestras
comprised a study of audience
demographic research review in 2010 of
why this was happening what they found
was two things one was that their core
audience was comprised of primarily
aging baby boomers who are getting older
at a rate faster than that of the
general population and orchestras had
always assumed that younger people as
they got older would naturally age into
being the new core audience however what
this study clearly showed was that Gen
Xers as they were getting older were not
filling in those emptying concert seeds
so orchestras were not facing a
metaphorical death of classical music
they were facing the literal death of
classical music audiences the study
however did offer a couple of potential
solutions the first attract and retain
younger audiences
the second attract and retain diverse
audiences so as the young conductor I
was determined I was going to help save
classical music and along with the rest
of the industry we decided to do a lot
of projects that were music focused
solutions and by that I mean we were
going to do things like quote unquote
fixed classical music to make it more
accessible to people a lot of these
projects involved crossover
collaborations between classical music
and other genres like rock and hip-hop
some of these projects involve combining
classical music and multimedia
productions with other art forms like
dance and spoken word but as they began
to do a lot more of these projects it
suddenly dawned on me that perhaps just
fixing classical music wasn&#39;t going to
be enough to say
orchestras for the future and in 2007
three significant events made this very
clear to me the first was the historical
presidential candidacy of a black man
Barack Obama and a white woman Hillary
Clinton for the President of the United
States the second was the appointment of
a fiery young conductor by the name of
Gustavo Dudamel as the music director of
the prestigious Los Angeles Philharmonic
the third was how shall I say this a
personal and professional event in my
life after beating out hundreds of
qualified candidates and being one of
three finalists for the position of a
music director in California the search
director committee chairman simply said
to me I&#39;m sorry you just don&#39;t look like
what our audience expects the conductor
to look like we can&#39;t give you this job
I know so to be honest after this kind
of conflagration of rage burning inside
me had kind of slowly simmered down to
just you know merely a simmering anger
at this blinding flash of insight and it
was this but it wasn&#39;t classical music
that needed fixing it was orchestras
that needed fixing because they were
catering to the taste literally of a
dying audience demographic and so armed
with this new insight I decided I was
going to bring sexy back to classical
music and I thought and I founded the
Black Pearl Chamber Orchestra and my
goal for this was to create an orchestra
that would serve as kind of a musical
laboratory that would you know form
experiments and kind of execute my ideas
that changing an orchestra can help
revitalize classical music and it was
also my hope that other orchestras would
see the work that Black Pearl was doing
and then emulated in their communities
and I was going to do that in two simple
ways I was going to fix two things one
was the lack of diversity and orchestras
and second was the lack of audience
engagement
so the first fix was very simple I had a
simple theory if you have a younger more
diverse orchestra you&#39;ll probably
attract a younger more diverse audience
and quality to this end was extremely
important I hired a Latino
african-american asian-american
Caucasian American even middle-eastern
Americans then they all came from
Juilliard from Curtis from Peabody from
the top conservatories around the world
and I hired them in my Orchestra the
second audience engagement was a much
more important concept in this meant
that orchestras should no longer hold
audiences at arm&#39;s length
rather welcome them into the classical
music experience and towards that end I
formulated something that I call to I
conduct and this was simply the goal of
putting an orchestra baton in every
single man woman and child hand in the
city of Philadelphia and as you can see
we were quite successful in reached a
lot of places train stations art museums
even City Hall and this was one of the
results this gentleman who will not take
off his bike
he&#39;s afraid that if he does to Valley
the orchestra will help him
so I&#39;m down
[Music]
thoroughly enjoying himself
right out laughing in the audience
[Music]
he will not give up the potaro so he
goes on so you know all these experience
with black pearl and dealing with lack
of diversity and lack of engagement led
to three lessons one was that clearly
Americans are suffering from a silent
pandemic of megalomania in America as
evidenced by this gentleman the second
is that these ideas work black pearl
Chamber Orchestra concerts have a 50%
audience development rate of
african-americans in the artists this is
unheard of for classical music audiences
and we know these ideas are working
because now other orchestras are picking
them up as you can see here when our
lovely neighbors the Philadelphia
Orchestra picked up our I conduct idea
very recently the concert that they did
in Kimmel Center in the most important
lesson and I think for all classical
music and arts organizations is this
that when the arts genuinely engage the
community the community will genuinely
embrace and participate in the arts
thank you very much
[Applause]
