
for Afghanistan a country where bad news
is more of a
exception 2015 has been particularly
dreadful Taliban and Isis have achieved
what we&#39;re hoping to be temporary
success within the country according to
the latest UN report the number of
casualties have reached a new peak of
9000 in 2015 as a result of inflicted
violence in just the first 10 months of
the year after 14 years of invasion
there are still stories like 27 year old
Honda being publicly slammed by a mob in
middle of Kabul the body of
nine-year-old Shaurya
was returned to her family after she was
brutally beheaded along with six other
hazardous and ethnic afghan minorities
young men as young as eleven year old
Sammy Allah continued to join insurgency
to become suicide bomber and Kabul is
hit by regular interval explosions from
time to time so you can see the past
year has been an undeniably difficult
year for all Afghans record numbers as
many as hundreds of thousands are
fleeing the chaos by risking their lives
to cross illegally into Iran Turkey and
on to Europe but amid the doom and gloom
how do young Afghans which make up more
than 60% of its population hold on to
hope I spent two years photographing the
youth in my home country of Iran at the
end of those two years realizing the
value of my photographs showcasing the
secular youth culture of Iran for the
world to see I packed my bags and moved
to Kabul to document a generation that
has only known more and a subculture
that no one really knows about this
group of young people born between 1980
the first year of Soviet invasion of
Afghanistan and 2001 which marks the
first year of us-led military
intervention of Afghanistan or Afghan
Millennials they show great resiliency
and health when I first met some of
these Afghan Millennials the best and
the brightest of their generation they
were hopeful almost well forth
determined to bring their beleaguer but
Beloved Country into their life at the
start of 2015 the past 12 months have
put their commitment into test rather
than making every effort to leave and
seek asylum in European countries the
secular youth captured in my photographs
have stayed and strive to transform
their war-torn country into a more
secure and prosperous place to live
the remaining secular in Afghanistan
comes with a price with her for everyone
the youth the youth have to maintain
several identities and live it to a life
by hiding some of their activities from
their parents their relatives their
friends colleagues and the area of
public due to the strong presence of
Islamic beliefs drinking is not
tolerated among Afghans pasaje law and
her friend hit one of the only
underground bars left in Kabul to have a
drink and listen to loud live music and
why music was banned under Taliban
regime today young people like Salah
pick up their guitar to play a cover of
Avril Lavigne song
members of Afghan Dream breakdancing
crew practice and rehearse in the French
school auditorium a Ponte it was
attacked and blown up ital upon this
year most forms of dance are seen as
morally corrupt why photography was a
punishable act under Taliban regime
today young men compete in modeling
contests in hopes of becoming a model
and taking over billboards all across
the city
brave young women sweat off the stress
of everyday life by practicing with the
national team of boxing while their
mothers just 15 years ago were not even
allowed on the street under Taliban rule
this slice of culture led by a
courageous group of young people is not
a monolithic fraction but signals hope
one thing that many of these young men
and women pointed out to me is that
their generation seems to have found its
voice and it&#39;s important for the role to
know it exists
the youth that I met shortly after I
moved to Cabo in December of 2014 we&#39;re
all positively patriotic and hopeful
about their country but after such a
difficult year their words and their
tones are much less upbeat today having
grown up in Iran where the youth strive
to dream in the face of oppression this
is a generation that I identify with a
generation that fights for the strain of
life in the middle of constant conflict
made this fraternity and solidarity
among young Afghans lead into patient
and strength may they find motivation to
carry on thank you
[Applause]
