
we have a profound and continuing
interest in alien worlds bizarre
ecosystems filled with strange creatures
we encounter these alien wills and books
movies and our dreams they are very
diverse but they all share one thing in
common they are figments of our human
imagination they&#39;re not real and even if
such alien worlds exist somewhere in
outer space which may well be the case
we will likely never get to visit them
the distances are too great and our
bodies too fragile that is the bad news
the good news is that we can travel to
alien worlds that are every bit as
bizarre and as spectacular as the ones
we imagined in avatar or Star Wars all
we need to do is travel back in time on
our own planet I will take you on such a
journey back in time 100 million years
into the past to a strange place
swarming with predators an ecosystem I
described as the most dangerous place in
the history of our planet here giant
20-foot wingspan flying reptiles rule
the skies dissecting one of these
strange creatures with long slender jaws
and multi-layered complex wing membranes
will be one of the most interesting
experiences an anatomist could have
three different kinds of flying dragons
inhabit our alien world with heads
stranger than fiction they are unlike
any animals alive today our alien world
is also home to huge river systems
covering an area approaching the size of
the continental United States giant
river monsters are patrolling these
waterways in search of cars sized fish
this 50-foot long tread
sure is Spinosaurus the first semi
aquatic dinosaur known with a sale
taller than a person and long slender
jaws to catch fish I think that this
animal makes our imaginary and fictional
dragons look very boring very few
plant-eating Giants inhabit our
predators paradise the ones that do
venture here have to fend off hunters
with knife like teeth and ferocious
claws these two predators are kakuro Don
thesaurus bust size hunters now at times
our journey back in time might conjure
up images of nightmares and surreal
landscapes this is a world red in tooth
and claw river of giants a place full of
unfamiliar smells extreme climate
conditions and swarming with bizarre
creatures it really does feel like an
ecosystem from the depths of space and
yet all of these creatures lived on this
very planet they&#39;re fossils ghosts from
deep time remind us that these animals
were real there&#39;s something very
tangible about these alien worlds and
that makes them very special to me i&#39;m
resurrecting this particular ecosystem
through my fieldwork in the Sahara
scouring the sands of the desert in
search of fossils all the animals and
environments you saw here existed 100
million years ago in a place we now call
the Sahara so for me looking down on
this Queen of the desert the Sahara I
cannot help traveling back in time in my
mind to alien worlds that are beautiful
all inspiring and full of surprises they
really are more bizarre than we could
possibly imagine and most importantly
they are real thank you
[Applause]
