
I want to share an ocean story with you
it is about the power of celebration and
at its heart is the killer whale founded
just about every part of our one world
ocean the killer whale is the most
broadly distributed mammal in the world
apart from us near shore off shore polar
or tropical they occupy a singular
position in the food web without concern
of predation themselves fish seals
penguins sharks great whales heck They
ve been known to eat moose killer whales
are in direct relationship with a
dizzying array of species they aren&#39;t in
many ways the face of the ocean as a
species killer whales are accomplished
generalists to be sure tremendous
diversity exists amongst killer whales
select groups may specialize in fish
while others may make a living munching
on marine mammals independent of prey
type however all killer whales benefit
from a formidable pairing of physical
and behavioral adaptations killer whales
have a host of physical features they
are exceptionally quick reaching top
speed faster than many of their smaller
dolphin cousins the color pattern so
seemingly obvious to us actually serves
to camouflage and confuse and like all
toothed whales they have an
extraordinary ability to see with their
ears through echolocation and then of
course there&#39;s their sheer size the
largest member of the dolphin family
female killer whales are comparable in
length to a full-size SUV while male
killer whales are bigger yet roughly the
same size as a small RV but some of the
killer whales prey is bigger still the
blue whale the largest animal ever to
exist on the planet in ways both literal
and figurative it is the largest
challenge ever to face a predator and
there&#39;s only one that there&#39;s to tackle
their immensity on the face of it it
seems absurd
the blue whale can reach lengths five
times longer and weigh 40 times as much
as a single killer whale that&#39;s a
challenge that cannot be overcome by
physical gifts alone so what&#39;s a killer
whale to do what is the secret to
overcoming a challenge this massive
cooperation coordination collaboration
killer whales are highly social species
who exhibit complex group interactions
with in hierarchical dominant systems
that is to say they work together to
rear their young to protect their pod
and to pursue prey which can
occasionally include blue whales only
twice as such a Clash of the Titans been
documented the first time was 35 years
ago back in 1979 a combined crew from
the hub SeaWorld Research Institute and
SeaWorld San Diego were embarking on a
mission to tag swordfish for study when
they happened upon a pot of roughly 30
killer whales already engaged in
attacking a big blue whale they realized
the single singular nature of what they
were witnessing and abandoning the
original mission stayed with these
whales for the next five hours now I&#39;m
going to share some of the footage that
they took with you now while most of the
more graphic footage has been omitted be
prepared for be prepared for things not
to go well for the blue and what you&#39;re
seeing is a highly organized effort
playing out over the course of five
hours particular whales will adopt
particular roles and work in concert
with the rest of the group throughout
the pursuit 35 years ago when this took
place the expert opinion at the time was
that the dominant males were leading the
effort how little we knew and still
fully understand about killer whales if
you look closely you&#39;ll see the adult
males they&#39;re the ones with the
particularly tall dorsal fins largely
maintained a peripheral role flanking
this this 60-foot blue on its left and
it&#39;s right forward and back the adult
females on the other hand are in close
driving the blue forward steadily
exhausting him it is the females who are
actually calling the shots coordinating
the efforts of the group as killer whale
pods are generally matriarchal the
exhibit is strict dominance hierarchy
ranked in order top to bottom with the
adult females generally at the top of
the pecking order
often times followed by adolescents and
calves in the middle and then finally
rounded out with adult males sitting at
the bottom sound familiar to anyone with
me now
back to the hunt in addition to the
whales flanking and driving others will
periodically bite onto the tail flukes
of the blue weighing him down further
and exhausting him also while it is
difficult to discern from this footage
eyewitness is indicated that still other
whales were constantly plunging
underneath the big blue whale preventing
him from attempting escape by diving
finally you may have noticed a few
smaller whales beginning to show up next
to the blue these are young killer
whales who were incorporated into the
hunt as the blue became more and more
weary this serves as an important lesson
for the young providing them an
opportunity to develop skills which will
prove vital as they mature now I
mentioned earlier that this is one of
two instances of anyone actually ever
filming a pot of killer whales attacking
a blue whale the second filmed last year
in 2013 provides an intriguing
possibility given the location in which
both events were seen it is remotely
possible that some of the young whales
seemed learning how to hunt blues in
this footage are actually experienced
adults taking on an even larger blue in
the later piece regardless any
observation of a group of killer whales
successfully overcoming a challenges
significant under the blue whale is both
incredibly rare and immensely inspiring
their cooperative effort and outcome of
ordered focus and group will powerfully
illustrates the simple tenets that many
can accomplish what one cannot I believe
we have something truly two vital to
learn from the killer whale their living
testament to the power of cooperation
can inspire us as we consider our own
relationship with the ocean
they show us that no matter how big the
challenge while it might be beyond you
or I it is not beyond us thank you
[Applause]
