
what has been the most profound moment
of your professional life mine was in
2004 when I was working as a press chief
for the Athens Olympic torch relay
traveling with a flame to multiple
cities worldwide I stood in Tahrir
Square in Cairo surrounded by thousands
of joyful proud Egyptians who were
cheering for the torch bearers it was
the first time the Olympic flame had
touched African soil but it was also
surrounded by the sponsors breathing
down my neck as they were making sure
they got bang for the buck it was all
very strange
exhausting exhilarating and I felt
completely alive and I realized in that
moment that it was possible to find
meaning in the tension between Commerce
and a beautiful idea and that it was
this intensity that I wanted to feel
again and again in my career but it&#39;s
hard to keep the flame alive and find
these moments in business we are
expected to always be in control
flawless consistent productivity
machines we are used to hearing you can
only manage what you measure we are told
the algorithmic cooperation is the next
big thing technology promises us to
measure everything so we can optimize it
a Productivity a fitness even a
happiness it seems that only the
measured life is a good life but when
everything is measured transparent
familiar predictable where do we find
unexpected and profound experiences to
illuminate our days where is the thrill
of the unknown where is the magic we are
at risk of engineering the romance out
of our lives
romance which perhaps is the ultimate
differential in a world of maximizers
and optimizers we&#39;ve been at a point of
such disenchantment before 200 years ago
the original Romantic movement Byron
Keats the Shelley&#39;s touted emotion and
mystery in
- the disenchantment caused by data
fication and the quantification in
response to the age of reason and
enlightenment today I would argue we
need a new Romantic movement this time
in response to the data fication and the
quantification of everything and the
disenchantment that comes with it and I
believe it is business people who can be
and must be the new romantics of our
time but how well first off they can
apply romantic thinking to the customer
experience and make space for negative
space romantic is what is open-ended for
Mooji the Japanese retailer emptiness is
the essence of its brand emptiness means
the possibility of being filled with
different meanings romantic is also what
does not last snapchat the app for self
erasing pictures negates permanence it
brings us back to a time when forgetting
was still possible romantic is what is
mysterious secret cinema shows and
performs blockbuster movies in unusual
locations the movie is kept a secret
until the very last minute and this age
of transparency knowledge might be power
but not knowing is the more powerful
experience for God if I lets you
discover the 4 million songs that have
never been played on music streaming
sites Spotify it uses an algorithm to
turn against an algorithmic world it
serves as a concierge for the strange
and intimate for the romance that awaits
us outside of our filter bubbles at the
lonely end of the longtail the best way
to operate like a romantic is to feel
like a romantic so what can you do in
your day-to-day work
follow one simple rule be a stranger in
a strange land on the way to work talk
to someone you don&#39;t know research shows
that people who talk to strangers report
higher levels of happiness
once you&#39;re in the office swap desk or
even roles for the day and to your
bosses email or let a colleague make
your decisions be an eMeter
do something for which you are not
qualified host a PowerPoint karaoke
competition and makeup voiceovers as you
see a deck of slides for the first time
your improv skills are the best response
to an ever more ambiguous and
fast-moving marketplace finally form a
secret society with your coworkers meet
every full moon to imagine your
company&#39;s alter ego I believe that a
smart connected age needs to be
accompanied by a new romantic business
world that allows us to be both
vulnerable and delighted to be Wanderers
in the farc
instead of masters of the universe and
it comes with business benefits to not
innovative enough well maybe you&#39;re not
foolish not daring enough to think about
the possibility of another world your
customers don&#39;t love you give them more
than just a solution to a problem
uninspired employees purpose and perks
do not suffice add some mystery some
adventure to the mix now one can easily
dismiss romance as the latest attempt to
exert corporate control I think we have
a choice we can either accept that we
are a commodity in the marketplace and
pursue romance outside of work or we can
insist on finding romance in and through
business and bring our full selves to
the task at the risk of being ridiculed
as warm fuzzy and slightly bonkers I
believe it is a risk worth taking many
of us spent the majority of our waking
hours at work and yet only 13% of
employees worldwide are fully engaged we
should not divorce business from our
wondrous elusive unpredictable and
unquantifiable mantis eyes the
enterprise to humanize the enterprise so
let us value what we cannot measure let
us acknowledge that the best things in
life are those that are not optimized
let us create things that are not only
more useful
also more beautiful let us design for
friction not just convenience and
efficiency let us use data not just to
demystify but to mystify let us make the
familiar strange again always and keep
that flame alight thank you
[Applause]
