
is there a more optimistic way to look
at the referee
Isis turning them from a burden into an
asset there are millions of people tens
of millions of people in the world these
days displaced by conflict and war this
is especially the case in Europe which
is experiencing refugee crisis due to
the world that has been raging in Syria
for the last few years
refugees have troubled past and a bleak
future and we - if we don&#39;t help them to
succeed our future is not going to be
bright either if we don&#39;t help them to
become constructive productive members
of the new societies it is going to be
catastrophic waste of talent and
productivity I believe that education
and especially higher education is a key
ingredient for their success research
show that there is a direct correlation
between the 1105 education of the
country and its success the reach the
return on investment on higher education
is incredible logically the lad should
be invested in higher education and
especially in higher education of
refugees but this doesn&#39;t happen
government typically do not put higher
education for Refugees and stop priority
simply because it&#39;s too costly budget is
limited in tough choices needs to be
made in there is a direct conflict
between the immediate the immense needs
of the refugees and investing in higher
education for Refugees will only bear
fruits in many years to come as a result
the likelihood of a refugee to end up in
higher education in the host countries
is less than 10 percent that means that
millions of talented qualified refugees
will never have the opportunity to fully
realize their potential what does it
have to be this way actually no higher
education for Refugees can be both
accessible and affordable and the
solution is
online learning it is accessible because
there are no limits of seats in online
classes everyone can have the front-row
seat
it is affordable because it cut the cost
of classrooms dormitories printed
material millions of students are taking
online classes these days all over the
world the best universities of the world
Harvard Yale MIT Stanford Oxford all
offer online courses seven years ago I
started the first nonprofit tuition free
accredited online university called
University of the people its Cole
mission is to make higher education
affordable and accessible to every
qualified student to make higher
education a basic right for all and not
a privilege for you earlier this year we
announced the new initiative to offer
500 refugees primarily Syrian the
opportunity to study for free with a
full scholarship with University of the
people this is
this is more than any university to date
every refugee who scores a his high
school diploma and is proficient in
English in English is eligible to apply
moreover since we realize that a lot of
refugees have fled their homes without
any documents we set in place a special
a caddy I especially dimensional
procedure to enable them to begin their
studies
even without the academic document
typically required by other academic
institutions today we have already over
1,800 refugee applying for this
scholarship more than half of them by
the way are displaced in Syria itself
with secure funding for 500 refugees 250
have started another 250 will start in
the coming month we are also working
with potential university partners to
enable Ismay both in the u.s. in the UK
in Germany Sweden and in Norway to
enable its many refugees as possible to
transfer after 2 years with us to the
local universities this is modeled after
our agreement with UC Berkeley whereas
our associate degree holders after 2
years with us can transfer to UC can
apply to transfer to UC Berkeley to
complete their ba while studying with us
the refugees are able to work on their
legal a document to establish the legal
status as well as master the local
language before transferring to the
local university University of the
people would like to to lounge even a
larger initiative to offer 12,000
refugees the opportunity to study given
the necessary resources we will develop
University of the people in Arabic from
their academic faculty to the
administrative staff the entire program
will run by refugees and for Refugees
these two initiatives are both rapid
replicable and scalable with the minimum
investment every single refugee will
have the opportunity for higher
education anyone anywhere anytime this I
believe is an optimistic way to look at
the refugee crisis just imagine what we
can do for the refugees for their
communities for the host countries and
for the world thank
[Applause]
