
there was a time when science and poetry
will one and his name was magic these
words from an unknown source serve as a
fitting introduction to this
presentation it is time to bring science
and poetry together again to rekindle
the magic to reawaken now forgotten
sense of kinship with all living things
it is time to rediscover ourselves in
nature my background is in medicine and
psychiatry central to my work is the
task of helping my patients to come to
know themselves a little better to
recognize the own contributions towards
their suffering and most challenging of
all to assist in the discovery of a
voice an authority that is natural to
them honest self-examination however is
not confined to the consulting room I
have had the privilege of having lived
and worked in some of the most beautiful
and remote wild life areas in southern
Africa it has been a learning journey
yes I&#39;ve learned much from my patients
but I have learned even more from the
wild I have learned that the identity
that you and I seek for ourselves as
individuals is impossible to define
outside of our relationships not only
human to human but to the animals to the
landscapes to the forests the oceans the
rivers in our lives who and what would
we be without them listen to this poem
the wind one brilliant day called to my
soul with the odor of jasmine in
exchange for the odor of my Jasmine I
would like the odor of your roses
but all the flowers and my garden are
dead well then I will take the yellow
leaves and the withered petals and the
waters from your fountain and the wind
left and my soul wept and said what have
you done with the garden that was
entrusted to you in this powerful poem
by Antonio Machado you all know exactly
who he is speaking to what have you done
with the garden let&#39;s put this question
into perspective this iconic photograph
of the Earth rising up above the moon
was taken by the American astronaut
William Anders on December the 24th 1968
it was a memory that deeply influenced
the lives of Anders as well as those of
his fellow Apollo 8 astronauts James
Lovell
and Frank Borman in a profoundly poetic
response Anders had this to say we came
all the way to the moon to discover the
earth James Lovell response was equally
poetic from this distance you can hide
the earth behind your thumb everything
you have ever known of the earth is
behind your thumb what a beautiful first
line for a poem and yet we all know that
things are not well behind that&#39;s them
in nearly 50 years since this picture
was taken half of the world&#39;s wetlands
beat beds and tropical rainforests have
been destroyed in the wake of
accelerated warming 400,000 square
kilometers of Arctic sea ice has
disappeared the world human population
has doubled while that of our wild
mammals amphibians reptiles and fish has
halved
Africa&#39;s iconic elephants are dying at a
rate of one animal every five hours for
the ivory and as for our critically
endangered rhinoceros one animal is
poached every eight hours for its horn
what on earth are we doing if we can
hide the Earth&#39;s behind our thumb what
on earth are we hiding from ourselves it
is this we are in the grips of an
ecological amnesia
simply put we have forgotten where we
have come from psychologically
disconnected from our wild origins and
from the elements a predictable human
behavioral process emerges that which we
cannot understand or embrace we either
belittle or we fear and that which we
fear we inevitably destroy now get done
you and I know that we have to live
differently but could it be that we
don&#39;t want to know the scientific
message and with it
human accountability is for many too
depressing too inconvenient and for some
too late I refuse to accept these
excuses if we no longer hear the warning
calls of science then the only voice
left that we can listen to and turn to
belongs to the poets I agree with Walt
Whitman listen to these words from his
poem a Passage to India after the seas
are all crossed as they already seemed
crossed after the great captains and
engineers of accomplish their work after
the Nobel inventors the scientists
geologists chemists ethnologists finally
shall come the poet finally
come the poets finally shall come those
who speak for science and soul who
narrow the gap between subject and
object individuals whose lives and
language rhyme with the two most
powerful words in the vocabulary of the
human species yes and no individuals who
say no to the madness of what you are
doing to the land to the sea and to
ourselves yes to those who come in the
name of healing
finally shall come those who speak with
anger beauty after age care and
compassion all in the same breath only
poetry can do that poetry tells the
truth but as Emily Dickinson insists we
have to tell its slut
poetry is after all a language of
protest but it is also a language of
hope it is in its essence self examining
I wrote this poem in 1998 have we
forgotten that wilderness is not a place
but a pattern of stars have we forgotten
that wilderness is not a place but a
pattern of soul where every bird and
beast is a soul maker have we forgotten
that wilderness is not a place but a
moving feast of stars footprints scales
beginnings since when did we become
afraid of the night and that only the
bright stars count or that our moon is
not a moon unless it is full by his
command were the animals through groping
fingers one for each hand reduced to the
big and the little fire have we
forgotten that every creature is within
us carried by tides of earthly blood and
that we named them
have we forgotten that wilderness is not
a place but a season and that we are in
its final hour now I believe there is a
poet in every single human being and by
this I do not mean a talent restricted
to the written composition of rhyme and
verse on the contrary it is a force a
creative instinct once awakened
naturally rhymes with the elements it is
that untamable voice of your soul that
part of you that knows without having
been taught or advised that behind your
and my thumb is the entire history of
life on earth that we are connected we
belong now this is the science it is the
poet in us who asks the questions like
who looks at who look listen genetically
bound to every living thing do you know
that every mammal has more than 90
percent of the human genome every bird
and reptile has more than 80 percent
insects in excess of 40 percent and as
for the trees and plants between 5 and
24 percent of the human genome we are
the human animal what a privilege what a
responsibility now this is the science
here is the poetry written in 1918 long
before the unraveling of the human
genome the American poet Carl Sandburg
put together these beautiful words
listen for the magic there&#39;s a wolf in
me fangs pointed for tearing gashes and
a red tongue for the hot lapping of
blood the wilderness gave it to me and
the wilderness will not let it go
there&#39;s a fox in me a silver-gray I
guess I sniff things out of the wind and
air I circle and I loop and I
double-cross and the wilderness told me
so is a hog in me and a fish I know I
come from salt blue water gates I
scurried with shoals of hearings i blue
water starts with whales and porpoises
long before land long before Noah long
before that first chapter in Genesis is
that baboon in me and an hour and an
eagle and a Mockingbird and I keep them
because the wilderness said so ah I have
a menagerie beneath my ribs and under my
bony skull and within my red valve heart
and I&#39;ve got something else
it is a man-child heart a woman child
heart a father and a mother and a lover
that comes from God knows where it goes
to God knows where but I am the keeper
of the zoo I say yes and no I am a pail
of the world and I come from the
wilderness magic and so in search of a
renewed sense of sanity I have turned to
the animals and in this instance to the
elephants in 2012 following ancient
elephant migration routes and clusters
my close friend Ian McClure and I
undertook a 5,000 kilometer journey
through southern Africa there were
various objectives for this initiative
but the underlying message was this if
we cannot protect or look after
something this big how on earth are we
going to look after the little things
and so with the assistance of a
competent backup team we walked and
recycled
and week I act and cross the continent
along the way we met with indigenous
communities like the Himba the Bushmen
and it was not that difficult to draw a
parallel between their future way of
life and that of the animals 125 days
later physically exhausted with much to
digest I asked myself this question what
is it that would worst want to share
with others it was this if there is
Apollo astronauts went all the way to
the moon to discover the earth I
journeyed into the heart of southern
Africa to discover a new perspective on
the future of human coexistence with the
world it came in the form of a concept
of keystone species a keystone species
is an animal and organism that is
essential for the integrity of the
ecosystems the word keystone itself
describes that wedge-shaped stone at the
top of an arch remove that stone and the
arch collapses it is a powerful metaphor
elephants termites bees are a keystone
species now to get a grasp of the bigger
picture it is important that you learn
how to understand shit just a little
differently
take elephant dung for example the
moisture in elephant dung is often in
the driest season the sole source of
water for countless species of
butterflies moths and insects the
undigested food the seeds the grasses is
food for baboons Birds and beetles and
the list goes on and lest we forget
elephants in spite of the impact on
trees are traditionally Africa&#39;s
greatest tree planters and so I have a
question are human beings a keystone
species the answer is a categorical no
if we were to disappear tonight
nothing wouldn&#39;t missus nothing the
Earth&#39;s ecosystems would be better off
without us
now I don&#39;t know about you but I feel
sad about that prognosis there is
something in me that says no and I would
hope there&#39;s something in you that feels
the same and hence this challenge if we
are not a keystone species do you have
it in you to be a keystone individual
someone who makes a difference to the
lives of others to the earth to the
animals someone who is willing to be
disturbed to find your voice to stand
firm in the persuasion that there are
something is worth fighting for some
things that are simply not for sale
there in this audience but please know
there are many out there in the world
already doing the work poets of the
earth men and women who in their own way
say yes and no individuals who through
their courage the commitment and the
conversations bring hope not the belief
that everything will turn out well but a
consciousness that can redefine our
sense of history since of nature and our
sense of stewardship take another look
at the moon and the earth this earth
rising above the moon it is a miracle
it is a gift and it is a garden it has a
soul it has something to do with you and
me why because our signature is on that
earth and it is all about time listen
one day your soul will call to you with
a holy rage rise up it will say stand up
inside your own skin unmask your unlived
life feast on your animal heart and
fasten your fist
let loose the medicines from your own
hand show me the lines I will show you
the sport of the ancestors
show me the creases I will show you the
way to water
show me the folds and I will show you
the photos for your healing look it will
say the line of life has four paths one
with a mirror one with a mask one with a
fist and one with a heart one day your
soul will call to you with a holy rage
thank you
