
askim manifesto point 25 we must put the
21st century city in nature rather than
put nature in the city hello we are in a
moment in which we have passed from the
20th century belief that cities and
human beings are outside of nature and
it was in the last part of the 20th
century that will be reintegrated on it
and began to see ourselves as part of
nature but while that concept was at
work we were in fact considering that we
had to bring from the countryside a
piece of nature to plunge in the city
and so our concepts of parks were
consisting in precisely that now once
upon a time there was a site that
considered itself a piece of city and
know it was destined to become apart it
decided that all by itself he could tell
a very different urban story and so it
started to first look at the city and
say what nature is there there is rain
there is cloud there is sunshine and
there is volunteer vegetation that
breaks through the cracks in the
pavement
until the walls but that nature is not
activated and show it saw itself as
something that could be part of parking
lot it could be part of walls of cities
it could be part of the roof of all
buildings and it could be part also of
railroad yards and systems of
Transportation not as the villagers long
but rather as a mix of all kinds of
vegetation but a vegetation that was
activated because all of these could in
fact be reducing the great temperatures
that the heat island of cities produce
could also clean the air clean the water
retain water in moments of the peak of
storms so they they delayed the water
running through drainage and having the
rivers flood and it could be that done
in cities in new parts of cities as this
in bball and which I&#39;ve worked on but it
could also be part of the new growth of
cities as a system of infrastructure and
public space and so in this
suburb of Minneapolis a new suburb with
a very high water table and constant
flood a surface drainage system in fact
could become a public park that was also
giving pleasure to his population this
is some form of activation of nature but
this site destined to become apart said
I could also be a fueling landscape and
by that I could protect the edges of
cities from the surges of storms or I
could become a floating wash since the
marshes which can also protect the edges
of cities are beginning to disappear
because of the lies of the sea level or
I could also be a system of urban
agriculture or I could gather the energy
of tide or of current I could clean the
water I could foster life in the water
through the root system below this
floating island and here to test these
claims by the site by two
very recent floating landscape one in
the Delaware River launched on sep
tember 21 and another one in the Gowanus
Canal that was launched on September 28
now the benefits to cities for such a
reinterpretation of the role of nature
and the way that it can function in
cities begins to make cities rather than
something outside of nature something
that begins to be able to take the
rhythms of life and change over time
thank
so we missed a cue backstage but this
was supposed to happen in the middle of
the honest now this is the city coming
into nature thank you thank you
