
okay raise your hand if you ate dinner
last night keep your hand up if you
cooked any of that dinner yourself keep
your hand up if you grew any part of
what you cooked last night keep your
hand up if you grew all of what you
cooked at what you ate last night no
hands go up in the air well the picture
is very different in sub-saharan Africa
almost a billion people about 230 of
them are women between the ages of 15
and 64 and of those about two-thirds a
hundred and sixty million women are the
farmers responsible for feeding those
billion people now today Africa still
imports about 30 billion dollars worth
of food annually when the continent
could readily support locally all of the
food needs of all of its population
what&#39;s wrong why are there repeated food
crises the problems are very weak
agricultural policies outmoded gendered
land tenure policies where women can&#39;t
ol and after their husbands or their
families die certainly in efficient
markets and lack of access to credit
climate change the list goes on and on
but this situation could be transformed
it could be transformed readily and
easily doing so requires mobilizing the
women of Africa they are the power that
really could lead to agricultural
changes need economic change for the
whole continent what does this actually
require it requires reorganizing across
the whole value chain first breeding
more effective more efficient seeds that
are more drought resistant and we&#39;re
pest resistant working on soil health so
that there&#39;s less reliance on scarce
resources like fertilizer and water it
means creating access to market
information and weather information
in the most remote villages even in the
poorest nations by leveraging the
explosion of mobile technology and it
means reorganizing the markets by
actually building geographic
agricultural corridors along which women
agro entrepreneurs could develop
businesses along which housing would
develop and families would flourish and
the roots of economic prosperity would
take hold the kind of system i&#39;m talking
about is complex it&#39;s a cisco man it
sounds very difficult but at the heart
of it is a key singular notion and that
is the key to economic security the key
to food security for Africa is
empowering the women due to all of their
daily challenges the women of Africa are
resilient and innovative they are
energetic entrepreneurs so our effort is
really to unlock the system to in
unleash that spirit to unleash it and
reward it think of this not only as a
great idea worth spreading but as a
revolution worth sparking thank you
[Applause]
