
[Applause]
as a biophotonic engineer I create new
microscopes I put together puzzle pieces
that are lasers lenses and photo
detectors in imaging systems that can
visualize cancer cells visual sensory
information can guide the surgical
excision of cancer but there is a
healthcare need to make the technology
faster cheaper and more precise the way
we do it today the gold standard is slow
and difficult so if we could guide the
blades of surgeons with real-time
cellular vision we could dramatically
improve cancer care for 3 million
Americans diagnosed each year towards
that end we created a system a
microscope system and that system can
actually in whole tissue provide
cellular images which is much more rapid
than the gold standard so in the hands
of my colleagues that had had special
training to interpret this new contrast
but there was a problem spreading this
technology to the rest of the medical
community this is the advance that
happened and the images were black and
white where the nuclei popped out like
very bright needles in a dark haystack
and this made the tumors jump out and
they were detectable but there was a
problem spreading this technology to the
rest of the medical community the rest
of the medical community did not have
the training they didn&#39;t understand the
mechanism of contrast and they didn&#39;t
know what they were looking at in the
five-minute retraining session the the
technology lost the interest of the
medical community and the progress was
stopped so it really all comes down to
the mechanism of contrast for the
molecular biologists in the room the
accra tea and orange molecule
intercalates between the DNA base pairs
staining nuclei and labeling cells
but the take-home message is just the
images of cells in the epidermis the top
layer of skin that protects you
the cells are patterned like a nice
cobblestone road okay they&#39;re all the
same shape and size and they&#39;re
regularly spaced whereas in the egg
crime gland that provides sweat the
cells are shaped in this kind of coiling
snake-like shape the sebaceous gland are
these balls of sebum the oil that causes
pimples and here is a tumor and the
tuber kind of looks like a porcupine
because the nuclei are densely packed
and various pointy shapes so after that
training session I will award all of you
honorary degrees in pathology because
the cancer cell type should stick out to
you like a sore thumb and it actually
did in the hands of our medical doctors
that were trained to interpret the
contrasts but there was a problem
spreading to the rest of the medical
community who hadn&#39;t been trained in
this to interpret this contrast and
didn&#39;t know what they were looking at so
we wanted to figure out a way to re
present this information in their visual
language right so that it would feel
comfortable immediately the medical
community is trained to read these color
images where the colors come from the
physical stains that are used to prepare
the microscope slides the nice purple
color you see comes from the hematoxylin
stain it stains the nuclei and it&#39;s made
from the logwood tree that&#39;s cut down in
the rain forests and the eosin
counterstain stains everything else
besides the nuclei pink the new
technology was black and white but what
if we could present this in a way that
you know mimicked those colorful dyes so
I took a step back and we reorganized
the technology to mimic closely the two
functions of the gold standard in
addition to the contrast for the nuclei
we added a second microscope imaging
mode that provided counter contrast so
it was counter contrast for the nuclei
counter contrast contrast counter
contrast and then we colored the
two images pink and purple and put them
together and they looked like this and
that turned some heads because it was in
the visual language that everybody knew
how to understand
so translational research is translating
a new scientific technology from the
laboratory bench to the patient bedside
translational research happens rapidly
when the new technology meets a
healthcare need without the
uncomfortable need for retraining of
personnel in this case the color code
represented a conditioned stimulus in
the brains of the audience and
recognizing that conditioned stimulus
and exploiting it circumvented the need
for retraining so technology won&#39;t
change the world with just one inventor
it needs to spread new technology
spreads rapidly when the wheel isn&#39;t
completely reinvented but rather tweaked
to be recognizable right so creating
something that&#39;s recognizable is an
important part of technological
development and if we can do this with
new technologies and the new technology
invention is only step one the second
subtle step is engineering an embodiment
that will spread thank you
[Applause]
