
this is Sunita besnit from Nepal
[Applause]
[Music]
Jacqueline patina from Bolivia and
Malaya peanuts from the Philippines and
I must say that this is an alias because
of the danger of being a journalist and
the Philippines we are not revealing her
real name who would like to begin to
give us your world pulse report namaste
I come from my small village of 500 in
Nepal when I was 14 years old I noticed
that my father gathered with certain men
and decide for the development of my
community I asked my father why not
women my father said shut up and do the
source I felt kicked out from my
community but later I find that my
father decide for the development of my
community because he was educated then I
realized that I needed to be educated I
never give up that&#39;s why I became the
first person from my village to receive
a full scholarship for my Higher
Education when I was 16 years old I
started a microfinance now i have three
microfinance and all the women from my
community participated and my father
sometimes borrow money to me after i
joined whirlpools i started speaking out
online and i started receiving several
opportunities I did I would Susan to
speak in a conference in london irish
immigrant to do a health clinic and
displayed drama
although I have never been tonight
africa i am working on line two mental
grand goals in ghana these are
opportunities I i am receiving is like
very soft hands length in eight months
like boom boom boom therefore my vision
is to empower women by starting an NGO
where I will sell it a ball from each of
the 75 district from my country and
provide a full scholarship I am also
coordinating to organize microfinance
conference in Nepal I believe that this
is one be possible if you have if we
have a platform where we can stand up
and speak out for the truth like what
I&#39;m doing today before my neighbors you
don&#39;t want to hear me but today the
world is waiting to enjoy me three har
my wife this is a level intern please
join my revolution thank you fly back
with me buenas noches fly back with me
to when I&#39;m 18 years old and I&#39;m holding
a baby in my hand or 20 and I&#39;m holding
two babies in my hand I can hear my aunt
your life is over you need to work now
my grandmother you&#39;re like a burnt paper
it was a time of turret terrible
political violence in the streets and in
my home and I left my violent has been
at home and I was terribly afraid of
going to the University but i did in
four years later i came down with a
diploma in my hand
graduated second of the class with an 01
and my diploma in business I started one
business one small business then the
second and the third and maybe about 12
businesses that i sold to other women
afterwards i have it started right
inning were closed and i have felt the
need to write about teenage girls and my
first comment was from 16 year old
nigerian she said thank you you have
saved my life and my voice was needed it
was amazing
mabanga before I came from the
Philippines the pearl of the Orient yet
the country full of blood and miseries
where women are called domestic helpers
mail-order brides and little brown
 machines by US servicemen a sign
in our country at age five I work with
my mother selling foods and cigarettes a
big deal i work in the banana plantation
working 17 art they enjoyed the burning
heat of the Sun in exposing myself to
pesticides a 20 I become a human rights
activist my first husband disappeared
and several of my colleagues were killed
I do survive several attempts in my life
and I hear the voices of my colleagues
buried underground waking me up in the
middle of the night and saying Malaya
please bring our voices to the world I
found work both while working in line
and started to connect with women all
over the world then the bloodiest
massacre happened in my country the
bloodiest in the history of journalism
58 journalists and activists were
brutally murdered last year and two of
them were my friends in less than 24
hours I posted the story and world balls
and it was picked up by international
news the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation and / viewed me via Skype
and before the program I didn&#39;t know
about the skype but then I overcome my
fear of Technology and I was hurt I had
a seven-year-old daughter and she&#39;s
missing you so much and subscribe
and I said before baby this is for you
and for your daughter someday and for
all the daughters of the world join me
in showing to the world that we Filipino
women are not servants of the world we
are servants of peace and freedom not
only in my country but anywhere in the
world we must end violence against women
and girls when I whispers become a
trumpet this will be and we will be a
great power of change join me thank you
thank you
