
according to World Health Organization
in the next five minutes now speaks here
the world would have lost five people to
malaria and ten people to HIV and AIDS
on the African continent alone simply
because they lack access to basic health
care my journey started when I was seven
years old both my parents passed due to
HIV and AIDS
my brother Phillip followed he died of
malaria before his fifth birthday when
they passed these deaths were traumatic
but also very unnecessary if the country
was born in had functioning health
systems there is no doubt that both my
parents and my brother will be alive
today
allow me to say a few numbers with you
in the United States where I went to
school the doctor-patient ratio is one
doctor for every 390 people my home
country of Uganda that ratio is one
doctor for every 24,000 people
the countries that have it worse a
Malawi and Tanzania one doctor for every
50,000 people 50,000 so why is that the
case well there are many reasons but the
main problem is the brain drain of
healthcare professionals on the African
continent
meet dr. Sam he went to medical school
when they finished they could not find a
paint job Locker locally he saw an
opening in the papers in the Caribbean
he applied he got hired I start working
right away some situation is not unusual
there are many doctors nurses and
midwives like Sam that will study
locally and work elsewhere simply
because of unemployment or under pay and
yet the local hospitals are understaffed
grossly understaffed and overworked
ironically the global health community
with good intentions spends plenty of
time and money sending medical
volunteers to serve in developing
countries if we could spend a tiny
fraction of those dollars empowering
local trained professionals we would see
a huge sustainable impact my point is
this those who have experienced the
problem firsthand are best positioned to
find a solution
unfortunately their farthest away
father&#39;s removed from the resources to
make it happen six years ago I started a
non-profit what we recruit doctors
nurses and midwives and we placed them
in under serving regions in their
communities in their countries
these doctors work in these areas for a
certain period of time
keeping one doctor working in
underserved region the unity economics
bows down to one dollar for life saved
one dollar and that one doctor serves up
to 7,000 patients a year and so far
we&#39;ve seen increased health access
children are getting vaccinated HIV and
malaria patients are getting the care
they need
all because of starting a simple program
to keep health care professionals
serving in underserved regions so why
does this all matter to me
well malaria killed my brother and HIV
took both my parents it&#39;s personal me
along millions of people around the
world would love to not see people die
or suffer unnecessarily from illnesses
that they could be prevented from I live
under the premise that all lives are of
equal value we need to incentivize
healthcare professionals to work in
underserved regions where the spending
power may not be that strong but the
people there deserve the right to
quality health care I&#39;m determined to
make that happen and I invite you to
join me on that journey thank you so
much
Thank you very
[Music]
