
[Applause]
climate change is one of the biggest
problems that we face today millions
could suffer hunger diseases coastal
flooding as a result of climate change
we may be beyond the point of no return
scientists believe that we have no
choice but to consider geoengineering
this is large-scale manipulation of the
earth such as spraying sulfate aerosols
into the ozone layer in order to
increase the reflectivity of the planet
but geoengineering is very very risky
we have never attempted these
technologies on such a large scale so we
could end up destroying the entire ozone
layer I want to consider a class of
solutions that have never been
considered before human engineering it
involves the biomechanical modification
of human beings I&#39;ll give four examples
here&#39;s one 18 percent of greenhouse gas
emissions come from livestock farming so
if we eat less meat we could
significantly reduce our greenhouse gas
emissions now some people would be
willing to eat less meat but they lack
the willpower human engineering could
help just as some people are naturally
intolerant to milk or crayfish like
myself we could artificially induce mild
intolerance to meat by stimulating our
immune system against common bow-bow
being pro teens and in this way we can
create an aversion to eating echo and
friendly food and we can do this for
example by having meat patches kind of
like nicotine patches people can then
wear these patches before they go out
for dinner to curb their enthusiasm for
eating meat here&#39;s a second
our ecological footprints are correlated
with how big we are a car uses more fuel
to carry a larger person than a smaller
person larger people also wear our shoes
carpets more quickly than smaller people
so another possibility is to have
smaller human beings that&#39;s right being
small is environmentally friendly thank
you just a 15-7 centimeter of reduction
in height would mean a mass reduction of
23% for men and 25% for women so how can
we do this we could use pre-implantation
genetic diagnosis this is something used
in fertility clinics to scream for
embryos with genetic diseases we could
use it to screen for children who will
be smaller third example we can also
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by
lowering birth rates there&#39;s a direct
link between cognition and lowering
birth rates in the US people tend to
have more children before age 18 if they
have lower cognitive ability so we could
use cognitive enhancements like McDonald
or Ritalin to lower birth rates final
example many environmental problems are
the result of collective action problems
where people are unwilling to cooperate
for the greater good but studies have
shown that people given the hormone
oxytocin were much more willing to share
money with strangers and to behave in
more trustworthy ways oxytocin also
improves our ability to read other
people&#39;s emotions which is a key
capacity for empathy so we could use we
could get people oxytocin in order to
increase their willingness to cooperate
with other people so why should we take
human engineering seriously because
geoengineering is very risky
if it goes wrong geoengineering could
end up destroying the entire planet
in contrast the human engineering
technologies that I&#39;ve been talking
about PGD oxytocin are already safely
available for other uses also human
engineering is applied at the individual
level so the risks are much more
manageable than something like
geoengineering which takes place on a
much much larger scale
finally human engineering could also be
more Liberty enhancing in response to
climate change simple some people think
that we should adopt China&#39;s one-child
policy this is very drastic but given
some fixed allocation of greenhouse gas
emissions human engineering could give
families a choice between having one
large child to medium sized children or
three smaller children this is much more
liberally enhancing than a policy that
says that you can only have one child we
are the cause of climate change maybe we
are also the solution to it thank you
[Applause]
