
[Music]
once I made a road trip through a
continent that no longer exists
it&#39;s called Latin America if you go
there now you will be sit a very
different place from the one I criss
crossed 20 years ago the trip started
far north from Latin America in Montreal
Canada and finished in eighteen months
later in ushuaia argentina in the
southern tip of Tierra del Fuego to
compact a long journey in a very short
description we were four guys two jeeps
and one continent the crew for the
journey sounds like the casting for an
old joke one Australian one Canadian one
Japanese and one Mexican on the context
of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in
1992 we organized a research trip on
Environment and development in six
different Latin American countries the
research gave us a very good opportunity
to drive through the landmass that was
named after America Vespucci
five centuries ago when best poochy and
before him Christopher Columbus reached
the land the territory was uncharted by
lack of geographical information today
Latin America is uncharted by cliches
and prejudices let me share with you
what Latin America taught me about the
need to reset constantly our abuse of
the world Latin America sends a very
strong message to the human condition
the past is not a fixed blue
prynt in the construction of the things
to come the future is not a mechanical
repetition of the present let me put for
example my own country Mexico which was
governed for seventy years by the same
political party there were regular
elections but you didn&#39;t need a crystal
ball or a statistical model to know the
outcome because the ruling party always
won there were some political opposition
but there were kind of uninvited guests
to the Democratic facade however
gradually in very slow motion things
started to change and Institute a
process of institutional construction
built an organization would guaranteed
free and fair elections in small towns
the opposition started to gain the first
positions in government then in larger
cities and at state level in 1997 for
the first time in almost 70 years
sadly my my father never didn&#39;t live to
see it Congress the majority in Congress
was lost by the ruling party and in 2000
a different party won a presidential
election it was such an unhurried
transition to democracy that political
scientists could not agree when it
started and when it was over there was
no need to redraft the Mexican
constitutions no walls fell down there
no dictators left the country in the
middle of the night it was political
change without the photo opportunity
just ordinary citizens embracing the
power of the boat
and political leaders acknowledging the
will for change we have learned recently
the Mexicans that democracy is not a
magic wand to solve all evil social
evils but at least the citizen will has
added an healthy degree of uncertainty
to electoral outcomes when my three
bodies and I were riding south and we
reach Brazil we arrived to a country in
the middle of an economic meltdown it
was the summer of 1993 an inflation was
400% a month
the inflation rate prices could go up by
10 percent in a single day let me tell
you how that looked like if you went
shopping into a supermarket
there was a huge blackboard about the
entrance onto the store facing the
cashiers and the aisles and three guys
in stepladders were rewriting and
erasing the prices of the merchandise
while you were in line to pay you could
see the perverse effect of inflation
working at fast speed as the prices of
the goods you were expecting to buy were
changing since the moment you went into
the store if you visit Brazil now you
will see that the nightmare of
hyperinflation stayed back in the 20th
century they expected yearly inflation
for 2013 for the whole year it&#39;s
equivalent to the expected inflation
between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. in any given
day of 1994 the consequence of this
economic stability is that Brazil has
managed to pull out of poverty 28
million people
in the last decade obviously Brazil has
a lot of economic problems but at least
their challenges are evolving the human
nature and the mood of a country have
something in common a contagious sense
of frustration happens when the
challenge of an individual or a
community remains the same from one
generation to the next
if you years go by and you&#39;re still
tackling the same problem you either are
in deep trouble or you are a PhD student
[Applause]
sad to say I&#39;m talking from experience
because it took me seven years to finish
mine but let&#39;s go back to my trip to
South America when we were designing the
route south we strategically avoided
Colombia which was in the middle of a
civil war with several fronts private
armies from the right gorillas from the
left and drug traffickers from all over
the political spectrum at that time the
word Colombian ization meant a spiral of
increased violence and the bankruptcy of
civic institutions today Colombian
ization is a synonym for hope at the
peak of the violence in the 1990s there
were 80 murders per 100,000 inhabitants
in Colombia every year that rate has
been diminished by 60 percent Colombia
still faces the body the demons of
violence but if you go there as a very
clever marketing slogan says the biggest
risk is wanting to stay now Colombia
it&#39;s a hub for policy innovation and
tannaz more crucial
app by the way in the last 27 years
Bogota has never been safer now in the
light from 2012 to this year to these
months of 2013 the Colombian capital has
been even safer than Chicago as I was
saying before Colombia it&#39;s a hub for
policy innovation and tannaz Marcus a
former major of Bogota could brag that
he&#39;s one of the few politicians ever to
get elected to office promising to raise
taxes to everybody in Spanish the word
tax is impressed OH which has the
literally translation to English of an
imposition very adequate I would say
Antanas Marcos innovated language and
police in a very radical way he proposed
a voluntary tax which has the
contradictory translation of a voluntary
imposition he invited the citizens of
burrata to pay an extra ten percent from
its legal tax obligations to support a
different menu of urban policies 60,000
people agreed to pay these voluntary tax
if I ever drive again through South
America I would love to go through the
papers that were financed through the
sides of voluntary taxation Latin
America is creating its own role models
for economic success Chile it&#39;s on a
fast way of becoming the first developed
country in the continent Panama and Peru
are two of the fastest growing economies
on in the world
the continent has changed a lot
however some places remain painfully
similar to their own past Cuba is an
island in time and space a society
trapped in one of the worst ideas of the
20th century a fierce economic embargo
supported by ten US presidents from John
F Kennedy to Barack Obama has helped to
preserve this isolation free trade is an
untested antidote against tropical
communism in Venezuela and in Bolivia
elected dictatorships have a facade for
institutional checks and balances and
very thin tolerance for dissent the
course of this society is that their
problems look so similar from one
century to the next their politics look
like a postcard from the Cold War and
our testimony of what President Juan
Manuel Santos of Colombia recently said
societies that experience extreme
political polarization inevitably suffer
economic stagnation without the politics
of moderation neither Brazil nor
Colombia nor Mexico would have managed
to overcome the trends of their own past
- a revolution of pragmatism and common
sense Latin America is changing its own
destiny muchas gracias
[Applause]
