
so I am a linguist and as linguistic is
not a real job I am a foreign language
teacher yeah
and being a native speaker of Russian
language
I came to Tanzania to teach it at the
University of the Dhamma a couple of
years ago and being a linguist of course
I started a research on one local
language called gogo and in my talk I
would like to share with you some of the
outcomes of this research that made me
see language an unusual way as a bearer
of ecological knowledge so what
knowledge is ecological it is the
knowledge that helps traditional
societies to maintain sustainable
relationship with their environment it
includes beliefs traditions all the
wisdom route the nature that is passed
from one generation to another orally
because it is far away from what we call
literature and what is considered to be
worth writing down the text so if we
have look at the traditional religions
of bunch of peoples we find out that
many of them are worshipping big trees
and you know why because they believe
the spirits of their ancestors are
living there that&#39;s why they don&#39;t cut
them down and that&#39;s why you you
shouldn&#39;t be surprised to see gorgeous
Bob our bellies on the way to the dark
as well as lack of soil erosion because
these giant trees prevent it with their
giant foods if not in religion we still
have chance to discover ecological
knowledge in the language itself and
particularly in Proverbs that imply
rational use of water and soil so for
example in Swahili it is often set
marginal high that means water is life
implying it&#39;s reasonable usage
another source of ecological knowledge
is indigenous plant names and this point
I&#39;d like to illustrate with some
examples from google language first of
all for people who speak google plants
have behavior they show certain behavior
and here are some of the plants with the
active lifestyle first is a lemon bar so
this is a plant that is shaking fast if
you translate it literally and it is
considered to be the decoration to the
salon now another one is ill weather so
this is a plant that is spreading around
and this one is Moulin de Lima which
means a plant that is always looking to
the east that is some slower yeah
secondly all plants of the names in
Google starts with I or M you go go is
any other Bantu language split its
vocabulary into a set of categories like
people animals plants round objects and
so on and these categories are marked
with specific prefix is so in goggle in
which plants are marked with I and mu
prefixes that are followed by a noun a
verb or even a phrase that contains the
most striking feature of the plant is
behavior its physical characteristics
its that even a legend associated with
this flower and this is my favorite
example
Moomba melon BC so it is believed that
hyena cannot see this plant so you can
hide behind it
so this is a Lenten thirdly the choice
between I and mu prefix this is not
arbitrary when I was trying to compose
very very simple sentences with my
informants I came to strange obstacle
having come to a weather my informant
refused to say this is a beautiful
weather or this is a good Alberto
because it just said it cannot be
beautiful it cannot be good
I asked why although on the pictures
look like pretty you know with flowers
and she said because it starts with I it
took me much time to figure out that all
I plants and goggle language are
considered to be useless while all mu
plants are considered to be useful as
food as medicine as tool in other words
people who speak goggle language
communicate in this way their attitude
to the plant and their knowledge about
how to use this plant last but not least
as long as gogo speak the language it
will remind them in what a beautiful and
valuable environment they live
preventing them from destroying it and
as long as we are aware of the
ecological knowledge in the language we
will respect it we will respect its
connection to the environment and that
is why as David crystal says language
issues should become a part of general
ecological thinking thank you
[Applause]
