
[Applause]
this is my city omaha in the center of
the united states and it&#39;s made up of
all the normal things like building
streets parks all the things that urban
planners and architects dream up but the
city is also made up of the negative
space of alleyways where buildings back
up to each other in these narrow
corridors we witness this slow-motion
interaction of building materials and
design concepts brick and wood steel and
glass these buildings each represents an
era in the cityscape is constantly
shifting and changing but it takes
decades for it unfold structures are
built
retrofitted to meet modern expectations
and eventually demolished like us
buildings have relationships and a
lifetime for most people alleys are out
of sight there are places for delivery
trucks and employees entrances why else
would anyone go there but they&#39;re
perfect for hiding things like a garden
retreat private art galleries
or piles of garbage from a favorite
restaurant limited space means filtered
Sun light at the end of a tunnel as twin
buildings stand together or Huddle&#39;s
shoulder to shoulder of course alleys or
vertical spaces where we can see
elevated walkways sky waves or a burst
of blue with frothy white clouds the
French composer Claude Debussy said
music is the space between the notes and
I might adapt this thought to the city
it&#39;s not defined so much by the
buildings and our intentions but by the
spaces in between thank you
[Applause]
