
[Music]
[Applause]
they are welcome okay today we are in
real we have two sides of real one it&#39;s
very clouded we love these kinds of
atmosphere that&#39;s just like today also
like a real carnival but also when we
put far so tools like a cars into the
city centre we feel depressed we always
complain this must be a bad album
planning I was the other planners in
China in the last 15 years I do about 50
cities urban planning help them to
improve the city centers and for example
my latest project in Guangzhou is the
next generation we call financial center
we try to intensify the activities in
the city center as much as possible and
get rid of the car make them all put
underground and try to make more
experience more information outputs in
the city center same theory I do many
outside a China project like Russia some
Pittsburgh like Vostok rusty island post
the APEC project just like also Zambia
like Angola new Luanda which we call
faster exchange city project and in this
project that we try to do is keep
density in one square 2 meter per lesson
area and then I try to get rid of the
guy as much as possible but the very
interesting thing is last year I teach
in dam Stein University German and I
have fantastic students from 19
countries 22 students I try to divide
them into four group social design and
technology and developers I ask them to
present its developers money and also
dominant people and I asked these four
teams to debate and try to get the
much as they can from their positions
and the infer strong very as normal that
s nowadays what working in nowadays that
is always disagreement people are view
you know but I encourage the technology
team to provide more choice more
possibilities and it&#39;s done actually
win-win sir did you finally get there
that is why I always describe technology
could be the turning key of nowadays if
we fully use information technology new
energy technology material science that
bio technology to put into the urban
revolution just like a computer we all
know that the Moore&#39;s law be proved from
thirty years ago
till now H is shrinking the CPU size you
can get better CPU faster less energy
consumptions and this laws can be proved
also in a city city center just like if
we describe agriculture center which is
based on renewable energy and then
Manhattan for example city center just
like IBM room size IBM in 30 years ago
and consumption a lot of energy and very
slow but nowadays the new technology can
change the city center into more
experience more information output but
less energy consumptions and these kinds
of theory I found out not only in the
big scale but also small scales many
cross the scale you can all find these
kinds of regulations most law everywhere
for example light right led much less
energy consumption lighter more
efficiency smaller and the car ok
nowaday the the fossil animals of
machines changing to like the energy
devices like you can see most smart car
coming out and how about building so if
we can achieve building then means that
we can achieve new generation city in
the very beginning right so in
agriculture time people use a nature
material create a note
see no power inside the buildings always
passive solutions but in industry time
the the totally change into a monster
like machine like a building we already
seen this is normal right
for example the indoor energy
electricity should be the AC system we
think this is normal but this hurt in
the human body how about we change the
electronic system back into DC systems
and linked to the PV directory and then
only in the first stage only kitchen and
a toilet have the AC system ok but in a
few cm whole building going to be a DC
building just like a devices so that the
inside surface just like this one inside
surface could be information surface
outside screen could be energy surface
interact with the nature this integral
is with the human body okay imagine this
shell me and my wife you know inside
create new baby ok new DNA coming out
right so this is very like how how
animal work right
so people bobbing together with the
environment can create something new
that is always I try to describe city is
a new type of animal in our 2002 2005
Expo we try to using city B in these
words to describe future city this all
based on material revolution actually
from concrete
I still like a garage we think it is
normal but when you&#39;re looking into the
last decades how material revolution
happened we have so many things to play
on nowadays like a problem carbon fiber
like a peel like also a film TV and you
can using software User&#39;s easily have
one line they can customize their form
of shell and this the shell formed
directly cake
laid the structure okay the scheme
became the structure okay and then you
can you can put concrete or PU inside
this can become more solid not only air
okay so this is our demo in our Tongji
University on our rooftop and you can
see like this can be very charming water
bad in your living room also okay and
then put on a real speech and it&#39;s a put
cold water in in the summer and then so
you feel like very comfortable okay and
you can put it on on to the rooftop and
even thinking are like one layer below
you print okay some material on it you
create new building immediately much
easier than before okay and how about a
bigger we put the ground floor just as
motherboard and plucking those kinds of
devices okay
the devices could be like a DC system
just like the first class furnitures
like it&#39;s much more smarter than nowaday
furnitures we can get rid of all these
kinds of food store and then shrink our
house begging to human scale what&#39;s the
meaning of how about a maker house
smaller and then be customized on
Internet
okay these kinds of devices furniture
devices the life cycle is 10 years okay
then we can put these kinds of devices
container move into your house through
the facade change nowaday modern cities
interior bodies just like using
refrigerator mix with the washing
machine mix with your kitchen because
with your TV together and it&#39;s energy
water and the consumer devices even you
can book your balcony right this balcony
can be based on big data of the energy
of the wing so that the every windows
can be customized a balcony can be
customized so in the future this could
be a very interesting series that the
users enjoying the creative process that
designers facilitate all these things
for the users this is our Expo a village
project that in this was one of the
biggest project in Expo 2010 and now
they are changing their function from
Expo staff area into future like office
housing mixed use area so we leave this
for 8.4 Gries make it a possibility for
some future change and all the car was
pushing on the ground and also in a big
scale like a whole Expo it used to be a
dirty heavy industry like a steel
factory bulbs Factory heavy and now we
change into agreeing
experience that connect the city
together with the nature the river
so actually we really push car outside
and then a more experience inside safe
the structure industry structure and
then try to get culture activities
inside contemporary architecture artist
museum so this is the nowaday we will
leave these five landmark buildings
there as cultural center of Shanghai and
this is one of the biggest solar panel
roof on the world 200 meters 300 meters
size like a solar panel roof and no
columns on on the ground now a lot of
experience in this area also passive
solution is important for example China
we have the big roofs you know that and
we other planners would give regulation
to the architect says that you have to
follow this big roof with which can give
the shadow to the ground floor and catch
wind from above to the ground floor and
also we would give a lot of fork
facilities to provide outdoor better
environment and also water issues right
collecting rainwater recycling a micro
scale and totally use LED to have the
host district with only aiready nowaday
this is nowadays actually we we&#39;re still
building several like different
functions around this cultural center
people love this Center now just like a
poster Expo so I will use this movie
so what&#39;s possibility of future cities
these are order competition at that I
lose this movie is removing okay but I
hope that this can happen in sometime
somewhere so you can see the shaft form
shove the city not like a machine like
hard cities they can adopt to the
landscape well right I named this wing
Museum there is a cloud like a shop and
there is Water Street like the natural
element which you fit nature very well
and this one I can propose to all the
African cities because I work in African
loud and know that old African cities at
the airport and highway connect with the
city centre
this highway usually very wide and block
the city both sides right so how about
we building a shopping center on top of
the road connects both sides use the
green land rather than we turn down the
refugees area and we use the green land
only public land build high-rise
buildings and then make it dance
information more experience and shopping
so this can be a solutions for many
African cities that they can have a bus
base the Oriental transfer your rental
government like a lot of hard do we make
a very strong like ax continue the
experience from Airport to the cities
even more this is one of the proposal so
that we are proposed for Guangzhou
education cities and you can see like on
this shop subway station on top of this
area that we try to build more around
the subway station and then incubators
area office areas and then we build a
terminal structure just on top of the
road okay so only experience on
connected both sides of the classrooms
and also atomically and outside was the
playground and also was the nature so
it&#39;s just like a tree structure which is
inside more density information more
density knowledge and then this the
white structure with the library there
which contain all the wisdoms from the
human history&#39;s right so
that fantastic like a structure the
exchange energy with the information
they just got those in opposite
directions very like the tree like a
absorb like a energy and then water go
to the internal directions so this is
the what I think could be a possible way
to shop nowaday modern cities problems
so going back to the theory of step
first always so sure every time to urban
planning I will ask myself whether my
wife like that
what my children like that whether my
students like that if yes that means
shows her agreement and then technology
should provide different opportunities
choice solutions okay and then it was
economy the money following okay and we
always think this is a new time that the
ecological meet with business because we
have the heritage of modern cities which
already consumed a lot of energy when we
saving space saving energy saving time
saving Labor&#39;s with our money right so
it&#39;s no problems unlike sometimes we say
doing always more expensive green should
be more cheap okay in very beginning
maybe Rd part it&#39;s more expensive but
going on it should be more cheap right
so we can achieve economy aim also in
the same time finally we get government
involving cannon always become last they
push help but they only make less risk
decision right so we actually 80 percent
our project going with the government
and we corporately come in very well so
if you&#39;re in the right order
step1 possibly change nowaday modern
city into a new generation whatever you
can call it eco city human-based cities
are like a green city smart cities
whatever but we can use small law use
step
to push that into national HDD thank you
[Applause]
