
in early 2010 I received a death threat
from the national security service of
Kyrgyzstan formerly known as KGB
it happened because Club the news
website that I had found that started
investigating the criminal activities of
Kyrgyzstan president&#39;s son oh those were
hard times actually and most amazingly
this investigation was done by a group
of teenage reporters led by 18 years old
Anna they even managed to publish the
first story of the series which was
about how son of the president gained
illegal control of the biggest countries
communications provider and I was of
course freaked out by the threat we were
even thinking of introducing a
self-censorship and putting a huge
disclaimer on the website that would say
that we are not covering anything about
president and his family anymore
and then opposition protests started in
the country and people were fed up with
the way the president was ruling this
country with his family and we thought
okay we were told about not writing
anything about the president but we
weren&#39;t told anything about the position
protests so we started covering them
today Club is the fifth most popular
news website in Kyrgyzstan and it&#39;s not
just a news website it&#39;s also a
journalism school and the age of our
students is usually 14 to 25 and they
are also the main contributors to the
website I think that we are actually
probably the most successful youth media
outlets in the world these young people
are the first generation that was born
after Kyrgyzstan became independent and
they don&#39;t just learn journalism they
actually learn how to stand up for
themselves and they learn how to
question authorities and this was
unthinkable even for grown-ups
some 30
years ago and what is especially amazing
these young people started setting
trends in the journalism of the whole
country I founded Club in 2007 with my
friend Renaud and it happened shortly
after I was kicked out of the journalism
department of the University and I
thought there was something totally
wrong about this because I was actually
one of the very few students who was
super interested in journalism so we
thought ok we need to do something that
would be totally opposite to this we
need to build a school where we won&#39;t
have four years of boring theory but we
would have students who would publish
the first stories on the second week of
Education and we built it of course at
the beginning we were laughed at because
our kids would go out on the streets
with their microphones and people would
just not read them seriously but then
amazing things started happening in 2008
our 15 years old reporter team were
registered in the parliament as the
official parliament reporter and in 2009
he investigated the break up in the
ruling coalition of the Parliament
coming back to protests of 2010 we
covered each of them kids actually
covered each of them and one day in
April 2010 opposition to control of the
whole region of Talas in the west of the
country after having clashes with the
police and we suddenly found out that we
were the only news website from
Kyrgyzstan that was telling the truth
about what was going on because all the
other media outlets were mostly telling
that it is still police controlling this
region which was very far from reality
we did a minute-by-minute coverage of
what eventually became known as Kyrgyz
Revolution of 2010 we got hundreds of
thousands people visiting our website
and it was amazing that it was done by
really really young reporters president
Becky was overthrown after deadly
clashes where more than 80 people died
and the death threat that we had
received before had no sense anymore
sometimes our journalists did stories
that lead to really serious consequences
twenty-two-year-old I look back and his
colleague ldr he is not pictured here of
the same age I investigated how Ministry
of Education used hidden Latin
characters in the beat for the
government contract so that only friends
of government official would know about
this competition and would eventually
win this story led to the government
official being fired and I think it&#39;s
saved something like 2 million dollars
of the state budget from being stolen
one day in 2014 these two young girls 15
years old nor Jamal and 16 year-old
Isaac we&#39;re living the Parliament
building after covering some session
which is usual stuff and they saw in the
yard that there was a car of the numpy
parliament member standing there with
totally tinted black front window which
is not allowed in kyrgyzstan so their
natural reaction was to get the camera
out and start filming it they were
immediately approached by the security
guard who told him that they should not
film and he tried to close the camera
with his hand to which they replied and
I was so proud when I heard this on the
video they said we&#39;ll actually have a
right to film here can you just let us
finish our job and they finish their job
and it led to a big story and this short
line that they said I think it reflected
the result of the hard work that we had
been doing by teaching all these young
journalists these girls are such a great
example of young people who know their
rights and who are ready to fight for
them and I really want them to be an
inspiration and a role models for all
the subsequent generations of people in
my country thank you
you
