
so that was me
in 2006 I weighed over 300 pounds
I had triglycerides of 500 and I had
just been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes
now type 2 diabetes is when your body
doesn&#39;t use insulin properly and I like
to imagine it as this sugar sludge going
through my bloodstream to the soundtrack
of Jaws like 29 million other Americans
I was sent home with a diet a
prescription and a little booklet about
my disease and as I dug into it I
learned a dirty little truth - actually
the first says in America if you&#39;re
diagnosed with type two diabetes you
carried the same health risk as somebody
who has already had one heart attack
second the object of the game unlike
cancer or anything else is to manage
your diabetes not cure you so your
doctors will work very very hard to try
to prevent complications that might ruin
the quality of your life or kill you so
I knew that this was not going to work
for me I was a hard-charging type a
global executive and managing my
diabetes was not going to be an option
so I enlisted the help of the people at
Canyon Ranch in the medical department
there who I knew were a little bit more
ambitious and here&#39;s what we learned on
a lesson on a journey that actually took
us five years I learned that even though
I was 300 pounds and had type 2 diabetes
my body was absolutely perfect the way
it was for the way I was feeding it the
way I was moving it and the way I was
resting it quite frankly if I wanted a
different body or I want a different
health I had to change the equation
somehow the second thing I learned was
that if I imagined my future healthy
self and started living that life now
what kinds of foods
how many calories I would need to
maintain a healthy weight for a lifetime
that would be the way I would achieve my
goal I had to come up with strategies
that I could live with for two days two
weeks two months two years now when you
do this and you live this way and
interesting things happens like magic
you wake up two years later and you&#39;re
almost at your goal I learned that I had
to keep track of everything so I used I
phone apps like lose it and I used my up
band to track how much sleep I was
getting and how much exercise I was
getting along the way and this really
helped me to keep the game kind of
rational instead of emotional the way it
can get this was a big war I had to
break this down to the smallest battle I
could win every day because I have a
short attention span I had to take it
down to the cellular level what would
make my cells happier and healthier
every single day and with every drop of
glucose or every drop of blood I fed
into my glucose meter I could tell
immediately if I was moving in the right
direction I became my own science
experiment and I learned a lot for
example what I didn&#39;t sleep or I jumped
time zones or took a red-eye my blood
sugar was 20 points higher the next day
and I craved carbohydrates well I didn&#39;t
need to eat what I needed was a nap
portions were always my biggest downfall
I come from the land of all-you-can-eat
shrimp and endless platters of pasta
when somebody showed me what a real
single portion of something was it was a
huge disconnect for me so I needed to
really figure out how to do that I
started eating with smaller plates
eating with chopsticks to eat more
slowly and I promised myself I could
have anything I wanted as long as I ate
it with the knife and a fork trust me it
feels ridiculous to eat a Snickers bar
like this but it helped me be more
conscious of what I was eating
I learned to be in perpetual motion all
day every day
looking for ways to move into fidget
because fidgeting can burn 200 300
calories a day I counted steps I got a
standing desk and I learned that my one
hour of walking every day was as good
for my head as it was for my body
and finally life&#39;s too short to live
without ice cream when I was first
diagnosed I made a list of all my
favorite foods and I went and did a
glycemic a personal glycemic index with
my glucose meter of each one then I went
back to each food and I tweaked it
adding a little fat removing a little
sugar until everything fit in my plan
and now I plan for a perfect scoop of
premium ice cream every day what I
learned is that given half a shot your
body will recover it&#39;s an amazing
adaptive machine self-healing mine did I
lost over 110 pounds I now have a
perfect lipid profile I have had a
healthy normal blood sugar without
medication for more than five years I am
no longer a type-2 diabetic
thank you very much so if any of you
have a health issue that you need to
deal with or a life change you need to
deal with I urge you to imagine your
healthy future self and start living
that life now break your journey down
into little battles you can win become
your own science experiment and come up
with strategies that will last for two
days or two years and most of all you
need to start eating like your life
depends on it because it does thank you
[Applause]
