
[Applause]
2 million children dying needlessly
every year but we have the power to save
them how do we do this by ensuring they
receive vaccines on time and in fact
here&#39;s the problem according to the
Gates Foundation one in five children do
not receive vaccines especially in the
developing world and the president a
child dies every 20 seconds from a
preventable disease so if sex scenes are
the solution why are children not
receiving them to answer this question
we have to consider the journey vaccines
take as they travel from the
manufacturer to the final destination we
call this journey the supply chain as
you can see it&#39;s not a simple one
vaccines travel from the manufacturer to
central warehouses from here they travel
to regional provincial district
warehouses and finally to the health
clinics where they will be administered
added to this complexity records that
are still handwritten long delivery
routes and a lack of electricity to keep
vaccines cold what we end up with is a
highly inefficient supply chain in fact
fifty percent of vaccines never make it
to the children this results in millions
of lost dollars and of course lost lives
so we have to come up with a better
solution and fortunately many
organizations around the world are
seeking a solution to this problem a
wonderful example is the development of
vaccines like don&#39;t need to be
refrigerated and although this is
wonderful it only addresses one very
small component of the entire vaccine
journey that might still be riddled with
other problems so a global
one-size-fits-all approach it just
doesn&#39;t work
this in context the journey vaccines may
take for example in Cape Town South
African will face very different
obstacles than if they traveled in
Punjab Indian so a1 a tailor-made
solution is required we came up with a
simple way to fix this problem let&#39;s
gather all of the information we can
about the journey vaccines take and
expose the problems unique to each
individual supply chain and in order to
do so let&#39;s come up with a way that is
easy to get access to everybody so what
we did was we developed a mobile app
unfortunately for us everyone in the
world or almost everyone in the world
owns a mobile phone by having a driver
instead of as a proxy instead of
tracking each individual vaccine vial we
can track the driver with this app by
doing so we can record the position and
the time of the vaccines this allows us
to monitor the entire vaccine journey
and expose the weak points in addition
we can convert records into electronic
forms we can also assess whether the
route taken was the shortest and most
effective and of course let&#39;s not forget
about the animals in Africa for example
2 billion dollars worth of livestock
aloft in this journey so having a way to
be able to monitor not only human
vaccines but our cultural vaccines will
really change our world fixing supply
chains it may not sound very glamorous
but when it translates into saving lives
this is one journey that is worth it
thank you very much
you
