
hello my name is Angela hello my name is
Zelda and we are scientists / musicians
from body and Herzegovina now our
country is a small but a beautiful
beautiful country in the Balkans Europe
it has all this potential for
alternative fuels production and usage
and essentially for better lives of its
people but it doesn&#39;t have the economy
to develop it so this is where our
endless teenage optimism steps in we
thought why can&#39;t girls from Bosnia
soulless and why can&#39;t Bosnia be a
country of innovations and solutions it
certainly can as two young students
attending to high schools international
high school of Tuzla and secretary music
school in Tuzla who asked far too many
questions on chemistry and biology
classes and who plays with the chemicals
when the teachers weren&#39;t looking we sat
on a path of changing the future of
alternative energy so we knew that
nowadays people in Bosnia and other
countries as well have these huge
problems with maintaining enough energy
for their normal life needs finding new
fuels but also finding storage for them
there&#39;s a solution we wanted to find
just one matter just one material from
which we could produce both so biofuel
and a material that will store a biofuel
by using the internet reading lots of
scientific literature and books which we
couldn&#39;t understand in the beginning at
all we found a material with amazing
properties we found chicken feathers yes
many poultry plants produce chicken
feather meal which is a hydrolyzed
poultry meal made from leftover feathers
and other animal parts used for animal
diets the plants usually extract 6 to 12
percent of oil from which for example
biodiesel could be made
moreover feathers are an important
source of keratin protein which has this
unique
traffic cross link semi crystalline
structure so when heated keratin in the
feathers opens up these hollow tubes
which absorbs some gases even better
than the world-famous carbon nanotubes
for metal hybrids
so if carbonized chicken feathers should
be able to store hydrogen which is an
amazing fuel but was too expensive to
store up until now now knowing that
bosnia-herzegovina
alone has 10,000 kilograms USA has four
billion pounds of waste chicken feathers
annually the just lay on the garbage
fills because we obviously do not have
enough pillows to stop them we decided
to design a to reactive system for
production of biodiesel and hydrogen
storage material from chicken feathers
and we called it now get this cat just
on the wings we would be able to achieve
four aims for this system first one
naturally because we are coming from
Bosnia would be cost-effective &#39;ti the
second aim needs to be energy efficiency
third one non pollution and the four
tame is good quality of our products so
we had this brilliant idea but we had to
test everything and this is when reality
struck us not many people in Bosnia
thought the two young girls can know
much about this topic so after many
rejections after many lights turned off
to professors from University of Tuzla
decided to supervise our work and give
us a laboratory to work in so we
gathered our feathers from factories and
we even engaged my grandma into this
project as she brought us some feathers
from a nerdy farm and then we kept them
on our sofas and that yes if you&#39;re
asking our parents actually put up with
those unpleasant others thank you mom
and since we love designing we decided
to build this new reactor system which
would produce both products by using the
same process energy after two years of
hard work and hours and
Oh hours spent in the laboratory we
finally finished our system which
fulfilled the four aims first the system
was cost-efficient due to the cheap
materials and process used but the
second aim was a bit harder now how to
achieve energy efficiency by using the
same process energy for production of
biodiesel and hydrogen storage material
so you start a fire for a couple of
minutes in the hydrogen storage material
and the heat will spread to high
temperatures due to the interior of the
system then these check chicken feathers
would start to release some volatile hot
rich gases which would want to go out of
the chimney but that would mean losing
energy and we certainly don&#39;t want that
so this is where a love for music steps
in as well as we have been friends for
such a long time and spent so much time
together once we sat in front of the TV
and watch to show about airplanes and
their afterburner chambers for restoring
energy
now those chambers were truly amazing
idea but they were too expensive and far
too complicated so we forgot about that
later that day we played the flute and
the piano together and in one moment I
put my foot down and I notice how my
food has an amazing air flow and I
talked Wow
so then I discussed with ilda what if we
put a structure like this above the main
reactor will it actually restore the
energy and that worked each time the
gases wanted to go out of the chimney
they bumped into this flute-like
structure after burner chamber and they
had to circle back the small amount of
gases that had to go out because nothing
in the nature&#39;s 100% be used for
production of biodiesel as well now
moving
now moving on to the next biodiesel
reactor the gases from the hydrogen
storage reactor were mostly at 50
degrees Celsius which is a perfect
temperature for production of biodiesel
we prevented the gas from the hydrogen
storage reactor from coming into the
biodiesel reactor since that would
interfere with the transesterification
reaction by creating a double layer
structure so that the gases from the
hydrogen storage reactor were just
circle around the biodiesel instead of
using conventional pumps for agitation
we used believe it or not a simple
kitchen mixer which uses just half of a
horsepower and we prevented the glycerin
and biodiesel mixing with each other by
designing a wet well measured cone
structure so this guys is how we solve
the energy efficiency problem so the tur
Dame or non pollution was actually
achieved through the previous one each
time this Holika volatile hot rich gases
wanted to go out of the chimney they
bumped into the afterburner chamber so
they couldn&#39;t the only gasses it had to
go out where water vapor and carbon
dioxide and they sold the carbon dioxide
problem by using a simple carbon filter
the quality of our biodiesel and
hydrogen storage material were tested by
us and compared to samples from other
overall already existing systems they
have proven to be much better quality so
this is it we met our goals now after
finishing our project we wanted to get
more people to know about it and
hopefully support our work I&#39;m so happy
to say that we were fortunate enough
that Google science fair has chosen us
to be amongst 20 global finalists
now coming from such a small country and
having all these troubles just to be
given an opportunity to an event and to
show it to the world that was the best
opportunity we could have been ever
again from music to science from a flute
for an afterburner chamber from girls
that asked for way too many questions to
designing a to reactive system
everything started from wondering and
friendship and never giving up so if a
knight
so if an idea it&#39;s a wonder if energy
can be caught then why not catch on ring
[Applause]
