
[Applause]
the beauty of metaphor of indoor
Shakespeare the power of analogy
knowledge the magic the magic of
symbolism the symbolism of magic the
universal hunger for connection the
language of understanding the meaning of
life to boldly go where no man has gone
before it is not in our hearts or stars
to hold our destinies but in ourselves
Shakespeare&#39;s Robin berry explored
deeply human beings love betrayal and
the tragedy that followed when Romeo and
Juliet pledged their love at all costs
love betrayal and the impact of fate
when Captain Kirk falls in love with a
social worker in the city on the edge of
forever the central theme in Macbeth the
dark side of power murder as the
ultimate betrayal issues of terrorism
and diversity in betrayal as Federation
ambassadors meet for an interplanetary
conference deceit contempt and the power
of illusion to shift the course of fate
after a storm in the tempest catspaw
were magic seduction and deceit drive to
aliens who threatened the enterprise
when forces shift and we see things are
not always what they appear to be
bigotry submission and paint and hatred
in the Merchant of Venice intolerance
and conflict in let that be your last
battlefield our weakness for power over
others Julius Caesar questions
relationship in the face of conspiracy
so
and blind judgment rule in the trouble
with tribbles what an inconvenience to
be human
Shakespeare we characters in person
optimism and curiosity for outer space
become ways to understand inner space
life is inspired inspired by matters of
the heart spirit spirit gain deep
perspective into our ourselves in all
these things we find connection and
understand a meaning of our own
existence to be or not to be
tug pug Tibet the questioners
[Applause]
