
time we have 1440 minutes every single
day that&#39;s 1440 minutes to live to work
and to play oh the past few years the
driving question for me has been how do
we get back time in the world that we
live in the world to be moving my team
and I we&#39;ve been collecting movement
traces from connected buses cars trains
devices mashing it up with a model of
the physical world and putting together
the jigsaw puzzle of what is happening
in every single location in time from
the billions of movement races from the
connected buses in South Auto moving
millions of commuters every single day
all the way to the instant food
deliveries and grocery deliveries that
are happening our local neighborhoods
every single day so how does this all
work we&#39;re now entering the age of the
Internet of moving things these are
connected objects with low cost on both
sensors such as GPS RFIDs and beacons
the whole host of other sensors that are
moving through our cities in space and
time getting movement information and
ambient information and pushing it back
to the cloud now when you start
aggregating all this information across
an entire city not only can you start
visualizing the patterns of movement
across an entire city the pulse of the
city in the mornings the afternoons and
the evenings but more importantly you
can start to learn from it model it and
also to start predicting it what happens
when it rains in Sao Paulo the soccer
team wins what happens to the commuting
patterns across the entire city which
bus stops roads locations have to our
long waiting times and which parts of
the city are completely empty these are
now the kinds of questions you can start
answering by throwing more computing
power in the cloud and taking the
guesswork out crucial questions
especially as cities want to be more
responsive and want to reshape their
urban
structures for the next few years now
this data is not only available in the
cloud for processing and analysis but
also it&#39;s now available in our mobile
devices we built a new kind of a map for
moving objects here&#39;s an example of
looking at the buses and and drain
traces in number of cities including
Vancouver New York and San Francisco now
for me this is a very exciting time as a
technologist over the past 20 years many
of us in this room worked on making the
web faster now with the internet of
moving things we all have an opportunity
to help the world move faster and give
people back time thank you
