
aliens if I could ask all of you to
imagine what you think an alien would
look like is this what you&#39;re all
imagining this is what I used to think -
but thanks to my research well I now
believe they look a little bit different
this is the earth our home planet and
its nearest neighbor Mars the earth is a
lush oasis in comparison to Mars and
this is because we enjoy the luxury of
life&#39;s most precious commodity water
Mars did have water in its past billions
of years ago it had rivers and lakes and
may have looked a lot like the earth so
the question is could there have been
life on Mars in the past could have
there be life on Mars today it is
incredibly hard for us to imagine what
life might have existed on a water rich
Mars especially considering that surface
conditions there today don&#39;t really seem
to appear to be able to support life and
this is because Mars is a very extreme
planet it is dry cold has high UV
radiation and no oxygen any life that
would live here would have to be a form
of extreme file so this is a type of
life that can survive in and might even
actually require these kind of extreme
conditions but how do we go about
studying this weird theoretical Martian
life well I look at the only life we
have an example of life on Earth and
earth is a brilliant analogue for Mars
even with our 326 million cubic miles of
water our breathable atmosphere and our
brilliant quite nice temperatures the
earth still has a wealth of extreme
environments that bear a remarkable
resemblance to environments on Mars and
these are just a few that I happen to
work in the image on the left is a Rio
Tinto in southwestern Spain river
channels on the earth bear resemblance
to ancient river channels on Mars this
river channel is red it&#39;s full of iron
it also is host to a very special
community of extremophiles
and these lis acidophiles acid loving
bacteria and they thrive in the river
waters today now surrounding the river
there are two
million-year-old rocks and these rocks
have fossils these fossil acidophiles
are the ancestors of the organisms
living in the water today this site is
therefore a fantastic laboratory where
we can study past and present life that
could exist on Mars now when you look at
Mars the most eye-catching feature is
the volcano Olympus Mons this is a
tallest mountain on any planet in the
solar system
volcanoes on the earth such as Kilauea
in Hawaii or although there&#39;s so much
smaller are still excellent analogs we
find thermophiles heat-loving organisms
throughout volcanic environments on the
earth we also find them preserved within
volcanic materials for billions of years
and they look a lot like these microbial
tubules we also study impact craters
these are observed on every planetary
body in the solar system and they&#39;re
created when an asteroid or comet hits
the planet or a moon they have a very
destructive reputation but they actually
can create fantastic habitats for life
microbes such as these cyanobacteria
live inside impact sorted rocks and they
use them for energy and for protection
these are actually two types of
organisms we expect to find on Mars
now finally the most mars-like
environment of the earth is the
Antarctic Dry Valleys and here is where
we find the coldest deserts on the earth
lifestyle survive here surprisingly
tardigrades the earth hardest organisms
thrive fair and what and they live
inside rocks the next time someone asks
you to imagine an alien I hope your
aliens look a little bit more like my
aliens and that you remember they&#39;re
really not that far away but what are
our chances of finding alien life I&#39;ll
leave you with this sort our solar
system is here in the Milky Way galaxy
it is estimated there are 17 billion
earth-like planets in the Milky Way but
our galaxy is just one of hundreds of
billions of galaxies in the universe
that is a lot of opportunities to find
life Mars it&#39;s simply the first step
thank you
[Applause]
