
[Applause]
we live in a world where crime is
increasingly transnational in this
environment how do we manage the tension
that can exist between respect for the
rights of the individual who is being
brought to justice and respect for a
foreign state system of law consider
this scenario as counsel for the
Attorney General of Canada i prosecuted
an extradition case involving two young
Canadian men Sebastian burns and tea
frappe they lived in Vancouver British
Columbia they travel to Washington state
in the United States to the home of
Rafi&#39;s family while they were there they
murdered Raffy&#39;s mother sister and
father immediately after the murders
they returned to Canada once the police
investigation had concluded the United
States requested their extradition to be
sent to Washington State for trial the
Canadian courts found that there was
sufficient evidence that they had
committed the murders to justify
ordering their extradition but there was
one potential and very important
obstacle and that was if ultimately
convicted burns and rafi could be
executed Canada is an abolitionist
country and has been so for decades the
question for the Supreme Court of Canada
which was the body that ultimately had
to decide with whether international
norms among similar countries were such
that extradition to the death penalty
could not be justified under Canada&#39;s
Charter of Rights and Freedoms one of
the things
the court had to consider was that 10
years earlier it had upheld the
extradition of two individuals to face
the death penalty in similar kinds of
cases the Supreme Court finally did
decide that in the intervening 10 years
international norm had changed had
evolved such that in extradition to the
death penalty could no longer be
justified and it said that before burns
and Rafi could be sent to the United
States the United States would have to
give Canada its assurances that if they
were convicted they would not be
executed after the Supreme Court&#39;s
decision the United States did provide
those assurances burns and Rafi were
sent to Washington State were tried
convicted and are presently serving life
sentences this is just one example of
the interplay between law and morality
where hard choices have to be made
governments and courts have to balance
the human rights of the individual with
the legitimate interest of states to
investigate and prosecute crime every
country has its own standard of human
rights and civil liberties and
protections under its own local law but
modern communications and technology
have created a truly complex global
village this means that while we can
have our own standards of what we think
make for a just legal system within our
own borders we should not take a
parochial or chauvinistic view of those
standards no country has a monopoly on
the perfect legal system no country has
a monopoly on the pursuit of justice as
the world continues to globalize
our concepts of justice will also evolve
we will have the strengths and tools for
international legal cooperation we will
have to work together to communicate and
to cooperate as truly global partners
thank
[Applause]
