
dear ted-ed subscribers splendid luck
befell me last month when I had a chance
to introduce myself to you in this video
well sweet fortune favors me again today
as I&#39;ve been reassembled and given a
voice for a second video to share some
exciting news with you my name is Ted ed
and I am a symbol for both the Ted
website and the billions of videos
available to you for free on the website
known as YouTube today I summon all the
ones zeros pixels and passion that a
robotic and slightly British voice can
muster to announce that Ed not Ted comm
has been nominated for two webby awards
the first nomination in what some call
the Oscars of the internet comes in the
category of best education website the
second is in the category of best
practices and guess what the winner will
be decided by an online vote that ends
at midnight tonight now you might be
wondering what a silly bust of a silly
man with the silly voices doing trying
to convince you to help me claim
internet glory twice but here&#39;s the
thing it isn&#39;t about the glory it is
about celebrating and supporting what I
symbolize Ted ed strives to provide free
personalized high-quality education for
all and this contest is not just about
their day so many of our fellow nominees
and so many that are not nominated are
right there fighting the good fight with
us every day
so don&#39;t vote for me simply because I&#39;m
likely to morph into this if we win vote
because an educators lesson on the
platform inspired you or because an
animators art helped you visualize the
previously invisible vote because you
like the notion of creating customized
measurable lessons and discussions
around any of your favorite YouTube
channels ok fine you can just vote
because you want to see me turn into
this but don&#39;t forget to do it before
midnight thank you for your time
