
I&#39;m going to speak about corruption but
i would like to drug suppose two
different things one is the large global
economy the large globalized economy and
the other one is a small and very
limited capacity of our traditional
governments and their international
institutions to govern to shape this
economy because it is this this this
symmetry which creates basically failing
governance failing governance in many
areas in the area of corruption in the
area of destruction of the environment
in the area of rotation of women and
children in the area of climate change
in all the areas in which we really need
a capacity to reintroduce the primacy of
politics into the economy which is
operating in a in a worldwide arena and
I think corruption and the fight against
corruption and the impact of corruption
it&#39;s probably one of the most
interesting ways to illustrate what I
mean with this failure of governance let
me talk about my own experience I used
to work as the director of the word Bank
office in Nairobi for for East Africa at
that time i noticed that corruption that
branch corruption there systemic
corruption was undermining everything we
were trying to do and therefore i began
to not only try to protect the work of
the World Bank our own projects our own
programs against corruption but in
general I thought we need a system to
protect the people in this part of the
world from the ravages of corruption
and as soon as I started this work i
received a memorandum from the word back
from the legal department first and
which they said you are not allowed to
do this you are meddling in the internal
affairs of our partner countries this is
forbidden by the charter of the World
Bank so I want you to stop doing this in
the meantime I was chairing donor
meetings for instance in which the
various donors and many of them like to
be in Nairobi it is true it is one of
the unsafe East cities of the world but
they like to be there because the other
cities are even less comfortable and in
these donor meetings I noticed that many
of the worst projects which we are put
forward by our clients by the
government&#39;s by promoters many often
representing the suppliers from the
north that the worst projects they are
realized first let me give you an
example a huge power project 300 million
dollars to be built smack into one of
the most vulnerable and one of the most
beautiful areas of western Kenya and we
all noticed immediately that this
project had no economic benefits it had
no clients nobody would buy the
electricity there nobody was interested
in irrigation projects to the contrary
we knew that this project will destroy
the environment that would destroy
riparian forests which we are the basis
for the survival of nomadic groups
samburu and the Turkana in this area so
everybody knew this is a not a useless
project this is an absolutely damaging a
terrible project not to speak about
future indebtedness of the country for
these hundreds of millions of dollars
and the siphoning off of the scarce
resources of the economy from much more
important activities like schools like
hospitals and so on and yet if we all
rejected this project none of the donors
was willing to have their name connected
with
and it was a first product to be
implemented the good projects which we
as donor community would take under our
wings they took years we had too many
studies and very often they didn&#39;t
succeed but he&#39;s bear products which we
are absolutely damaging for the economy
for many generations for the environment
for thousands of families who had to be
resettled they were suddenly put
together by consortium of banks of
supplier agencies of insurance agencies
like in Germany Aramus and so on and
they came back very very quickly driven
by an unholy alliance between the
powerful elites in the countries there
and the suppliers from the north now
these suppliers were our big companies
they are the actors of this global
market which I mentioned in the
beginning they were the Zeeman TSA&#39;s of
this world coming from France from the
UK from Japan from Canada from Germany
and they were systematically driven by
systematic large-scale corruption and
you are not talking about 50000 dollars
here or a hundred-thousand-dollar 0 or 1
million dollars there no we are talking
about 10 million 20 million dollars on
the Swiss bank account on the bank
accounts of Liechtenstein of the
president&#39;s ministers the high officials
in the parastatal sectors this was a
reality which I saw and not only one
project like that I saw I would say over
the years i worked in africa for
hundreds of projects like this and so I
became convinced that it is this
systemic corruption which is perverting
economic policymaking in these countries
which is the main reason for the misery
out of poverty or the conflicts for the
violence for the desperation in many of
these countries that we have today more
than a billion people because oh they
absolute poverty line that we
more than a billion people without
proper drinking water in the world twice
at number two more than two billion
people without sanitation and so on and
the consequent illnesses of mothers and
children still child mortality of more
than 10 million people every year
children dying before they are five
years old the cause of this is to a
large extent grand corruption now why
did the World Bank not let me do this
work I found out afterwards after I left
under a big fight to Burbank the reason
was that the members of the word bank
thought that foreign bribery was okay
including Germany Germany foreign
bribery was allowed it was even tax
deductible no wonder that most of the
most important international operators
in Germany but also in France and UK in
Scandinavia everywhere systematically
bright not all of them but most of them
and this is the phenomenon which I call
failing governance because when I then
came to Germany and started this little
NGO here in Berlin at the villa Bozek
and we were told you cannot stop our
German exporters from bribing because we
will lose our contract we will lose to
the French you lose to the sweets
alludes to the Japanese and therefore
there was indeed a prisoner&#39;s dilemma
which made it very difficult for an
individual company individual exporting
country to say we are not going to
continue this deadly disastrous habit of
large companies to bribe so this is what
I mean with a failing governance
structure because even the powerful
government which we have in Germany
comparatively was not able to say we
will not allow our companies to bribe
abroad they needed help and the large
companies themselves it is
dilemma many of them didn&#39;t want to
break many of the German companies for
instance believe that they are really
producing a high quality product at a
good price so they are very competitive
they are not as good in bribing as many
of their international competitors are
but they were not allowed to show their
strength because the word was eaten up
by grand corruption and this is why I&#39;m
telling you this civil society raw rose
to the occasion we had a small NGO
transparency international we began to
think of an escape route from this
prisoner&#39;s dilemma and we developed
concepts of collective action basically
trying to bring various competitors
together around the table explaining to
all of them how much it would be in
their interest if they simultaneously
would stop right and to make a long
story short we managed to eventually get
Germany to sign together with the other
OECD countries and a few other exporters
in 1997 a convention under the auspices
of the OECD which obliged everybody to
change their laws and criminalize
foreign bribery this is well thank you I
mean it&#39;s interesting in doing this we
had to sit together with the companies
we had here in Berlin on the Aspen
Institute and on the onesie we had
sessions with about 20 captains of
industry and we discussed with them what
to do about international bribery in the
first session yet three sessions over a
course of two years and president from
bites occur by the way shared one of the
sessions the first 12 to take the fear
away from the enterpreneurs who were not
used to deal with
mental organizations and in the first
session they all said this is not
bribery what we are doing this is
customary there this is what these other
cultures demand they even applauded in
fact Martin visor still settlers today
and so they are still a lot of people
who are not convinced that you have to
stop writing but in the second session
they admitted already that they would
never do this what they are doing in
these other countries here in Germany or
in the UK and so on cabinet ministers
would admit this and in the final
session at the aspen institute we had
them all sign an open letter to the core
government at the time requesting that
they participate in the oecd convention
and this is in my opinion an example of
soft power because we we were able to
convince them that they had to go with
us we had a longer term time perspective
we had a broader geographically much
wider constituency we are trying to
defend and that&#39;s why the law has
changed that&#39;s why Zeman&#39;s is now in the
trouble they are in and that&#39;s why am i
ns the trouble getting in some other
countries the oecd convention is not yet
properly enforced and again civil
society is breathing down the neck the
establishment in london for instance
where a BAE got away with a huge
corruption case which the series Fraud
Office try to prosecute a hundred
million british pounds every year for
ten years to one particular official of
one particular friendly country who then
bought for forty four billion pounds
military equipment this case they are
not prosecuting in the UK why because
they consider this as contrary to the
security interest of the people of Great
Britain civil society is pushing cessful
civil society is trying to get to get a
solution to this problem also in the UK
and also in Japan which is not properly
enforcing and so on in Germany we are
pushing the ratification of the UN
convention that is a subsequent condo
we are Germany it&#39;s not ratifying why
because it would make it necessary to
criminalize the corruption of Deputies
in Germany we have a system where you
are not allowed to bribe a civil servant
but you are allowed to bribe a deputy
this is under German law allowed and the
members of our Parliament don&#39;t want to
change this and this is why they can&#39;t
sign the UN Convention against foreign
bribery one of the very very few
countries which is preaching honesty and
good governance everywhere in the world
are not able to ratify a convention
which we managed to get on the books
there&#39;s about 160 countries all over the
world I see my time is ticking let me
just try to draw some conclusions what
has happened I mean I believe that what
we managed to achieve in fighting
corruption one can also achieve in other
areas of failing governments by now the
United Nations just totally open on our
side the word bank has turned from solos
to Paolo&#39;s an evolvement and they became
I would say the strongest
anti-corruption agency of the world most
of the large companies are now totally
convinced that they have to put in place
very strong policies against bribery and
so on and this is possible because civil
society joined the companies and join
the government in the analysis of the
problem in the development of remedies
in the implementation of reforms and
then later in the monitoring of the
forms of course if civil society
organizations want to play that role
they have to grow into this
responsibility not all civil society
organizations are good the Ku Klux Klan
is an NGO so we must be aware that civil
society has to shape up itself they have
to have a much more transparent fan
central governance you have to have a
much more participatory governance in
many civil society organizations we also
need much more competence of civil
society leaders this is why we have set
up the governance school in the center
for civil society here in Berlin because
you believe most of our educational and
research institutions in Germany and
continental Europe in general do not
focus enough yet on empowering civil
society training the leadership of civil
society but what I&#39;m saying from a very
practical experience if civil society
does it right and enjoin the other
actors in particular governance
governments and the international
institutions but also large
international actors particular those
which have committed themselves to
corporate social responsibility then in
this magical triangle between civil
society government and private sector
there is a tremendous chance for all of
us to create better work
you
