
I think I should I should have been
later today or 13 and I had gender
dysphoria name one of the boy
during my puberty I went through so much
of inner turmoil like all transgender or
gender non-conforming a genderqueer
children do like all of them I also had
in
confusions and they gone and one gender
and having the characteristics and body
language of the other and living in a
patriarchal society that actually
celebrates masculinity I am does not
celebrate femininity
I was benefics I was living a life as a
child as I was living a life that wasn&#39;t
a mile up 12 I came out to my parents
let&#39;s talk later they will also say
supportive but then they didn&#39;t know how
to actually support each other at 13 I
wanted to commit suicide because there
is not very nor anaida my school
teachers nor my fellow students we
didn&#39;t have child psychiatrists or
counselors to help intervene they don&#39;t
have gender dysphoria clinics and in our
medical academic education
transgenderism has not elaborated and
doctors didn&#39;t know water what is that
all about how there is very little
knowledge about it so at that point of
time what I really had was me myself
only so all the inner struggles that I
went through I have to find a solution
to bring them out I have to let myself
go I wanted to live and I will I didn&#39;t
want to die another thing
paper underbrush and the paint
I saw tonight in poetry and a satellite
a little beautiful poems about nice
truck oh my little joys my passions that
I wanted to be as an adult what I wish
to be an outlet as little poems and I
also began to draw I meant when I was a
teenager and that became a habit after
few years that was my outlet and
concerning myself Picasso said every
child is an artist the problem is then
they grow up the artist does not remain
the seven years later several struggles
several years of discrimination at
school the still struggling and
establishing myself as an artist as a
founder of an organization but runs for
the empowerment of transgender people in
India and pursuing all my dreams with
twins compassion still holding my child
inner child not to die after many years
of us 20 years later through my
foundation I started that childhood
dream then childhood thing that I always
wanted to do to draw to paint
so we have this trans Hoss project in a
suburban foundation we have this
beautiful project with actually
[Music]
addresses yeah
it addresses the model transgender in
the ground through and it here is this
project there&#39;s an answer for many
things as children who have gender
dysphoria all the transgender or gender
non-conforming hips go through same
experiences of confusions of going
through discrimination and the family in
school in society in the institutions
that they study and as adults when they
go for the university
and into colleges and after that venting
about his work life is very difficult
today without of course you know many
transgender people today in India are
begging and doing sex work look at how
many of them have the potential have
enough them will actually have the
talent to be an artist
and how many of them have that
opportunity to find their talent find
themselves not raining so after many
years of struggle almost twenty years
later last year I took up painting as a
career again and I was amazed that I
have not lost that poverty in me I never
have that I could paint sold out it is
just last year I found out that I could
be a good painter I started making
paintings and in two three months I did
my first art show in Toronto and in
another two months either it in
Parramatta and in Daniella a van it
continued and last month I went to the
u.s. I went to San Francisco and Los
Angeles and all my paintings were sold
that was last year and so I want you to
give this beautiful opportunity of
finding your artist finding our inner
child
to give an experience to the transgender
community so in February
because I run a foundation I connected
hundreds and hundreds of transgender
people across India in February of this
year I met a group of transgendered
people and I was talking to them telling
them about what app can do to them
and I held my first art workshop in
February this year it became a beautiful
journey of colors
first exhibition I did not suffer people
we had a exhibition the awkward shopping
match hundred April and it may never
hundred transgender people so far have
started painting on canvas and the Ivan
is almost all of them none of them have
gone to an art school none of them have
actually seen okay none of them have
actually never experienced drawing on a
canvas before so these women hi name is
Cara and her name is Deborah these
domains that he will see they have never
done artworks in their life to be an
artist the best thing is actually to
bring out the best paintings the best
thing is actually not to be an artist
that arrived at unpolluted quality of a
person comes with art and then dumper
first time like a child
all transgender people and they tell
their untold stories on campus their
stories of pain joy a health of
disappointment of rejection of the
adventure of tears and joy every picture
through the canvas so in July we did our
first art exhibition and Nevada with
more than hundred paintings and seventy
transgender artists we started to do a
fist
Archer in July and he continued to this
was happening and profitable and we
continued to showcase their talents
across again many differences
transgender people doing odd it hadn&#39;t
very good not that and people really
wanted transgender people&#39;s art so we
started to have a website and that&#39;s
called trans have star and this
happiness Kanchana when she was 17 she
was disowned by her family and she would
do many orphanages a furious that she
and she left with nature but now she
lives in Chennai she was her own husband
she lives in China and abandoned the
talented kid this chorus she wanted to
pursue are vigorously she has done more
than 12 ant work so far and under her
paintings of sword the great thing is
the art that we really support the
community we work burgers six birthdays
are turning into actors and the only key
will have wiggled out of bed what became
a challenge for us has become an
opportunity this is Kanchana and she is
explaining to the audience the on the
percival whole opera so we continue to
do you give this art workshops at
different places different venues across
India and transgendered women come and
participate and promote their artworks
through our foundation cause Audrey
foundation with among their artworks and
this the money that is and through the
sale of their artworks it is hundred
percent goes to the artist
so our barber a few artworks here to
show to you all so can i you can come
with friends so I have just chosen side
of the paintings abstract and
this is all done by our transgender
people and these effects can be batten
Chas house websites I hope you love them
it&#39;s all well first time artworks thank
you dear
[Applause]
