
as a pretty popular high school athlete
I always thought I would be fit fine and
fabulous at the age of 40
having the exceptional balance between
healthy eating and living with the
perfect workout regimen however I got
older so did my body and my time to
workout gotten limited I noticed that my
natural-born athleticism started to
diminish and was noticeable it became
extremely noticeable after playing an
impromptu game of basketball in my
mid-20s with some friends that game was
the start of a downward spiral of knee
injuries that resulted in for Denis
surgeries all those knee surgeries led
me to believe that this knee injury
business is never-ending well the truth
of the matter is shit happens and it
happened to me
at this moment I realize that no matter
how healthy or athletic I am at some
point in time via playing sports being
active or just naturally aging my knees
your knees our knees will begin to
slowly deteriorate the unfortunate truth
is that over time we all will be faced
with some knee problems as we age
according to the National Institutes of
Health by the year 2030 nearly 65
millions of Americans will suffer from
some knee problems affiliated with
osteoarthritis commonly known as oay
furthermore every year approximately
700,000 Americans undergo knee
replacement surgeries chances are you or
someone you know will have to deal with
the chronic pain and inflammation
affiliated with the knee injury or knee
surgery and knee surgeries are about so
much more than the actual surgeries
themselves in my case I didn&#39;t realize
the amount of pain and downtime
affiliated with the recovery I also
didn&#39;t realize the simple things we take
for granted by hopping to the bathroom
or asking someone to assist you with
your hopping to the bathroom
eventually my scientific curiosity led
me to question what technologies if any
were on the market given this curiosity
I decided to ask my resident orthopedic
surgeon if he would allow me to watch
him perform a knee replacement
surgery well as you can imagine my
perception on how knee surgeries were
perform
changed drastically after viewing the
surgery I realized two things one the
human body is physically indispensable
in to knee replacements are one size
fits all and the current technology sure
treats them like they are I noticed it
didn&#39;t matter if you had a small medium
or large knee it was simply about what
is available and making it fit no matter
what I began investigating the current
technologies to see how they worked I
learnt the first component in the
technology is something called a
synthetic scaffold that is used as a
mold to help tissue grow a tissue
scaffold is comparable to the metal
building scaffold you see while walking
in a busy downtown area the scaffold is
there to hold the building up while new
materials are added to help repair the
building after all the components are
added the scaffold is then removed and
the building is complete scaffolds are
used in tissue engineering as well and
they consist of things such as hydrogels
and three-dimensional fibres but instead
of using metal and drywall like in
building scaffolds we use cells and
biological entities such as proteins and
growth factors this process helps helps
expedite tissue growth and formation
resulting in newly formed tissue such as
bone and cartilage see cartilage it
doesn&#39;t regenerate itself
once it&#39;s injured it is irreplaceable
cartilage is a dense material that
doesn&#39;t have blood vessels flowing
through it making it a little more
problematic to work with for knee
injuries the current treatments include
scaffolds such as injectable gels that
are used to stabilize and support the
knee these commercially available
injectable gels are used to replace the
naturally occurring lubricant found in
the knee acting as a shock absorber to
prevent bone-on-bone contact
unfortunately these materials act as a
band-aid
after three to six months and another
injection is needed because of this
band-aid however during this time your
cartilage is not being regenerated nor
is any healing occurring contrary to
knee injuries for knee replacement
surgeries there&#39;s a shelf life of around
18 years but again still no healing
occurs or cartilage is being regenerated
to date there is nothing available to
regenerate cartilage but what if there
could be a product that would improve
the current technology begin to
regenerate your cartilage and start to
heal your knee from the inside out
before the damage escalates after all
everyone wants to be healthy forever so
what if I could what if I could even
invent a preventative therapy to help
those of us at the cusp of getting older
this challenge intrigued me and forced
me to make this my life&#39;s mission to
solve this daunting task what my
research lab
développé is an innovative injectable
gel that shows promise in providing a
non-invasive way to regenerate knee
cartilage more importantly this product
will provide millions of Americans with
relief an improvement of knee pain as
they continue to age especially for
those athletes runners and my adrenaline
junkies so how does it how did I come up
with this idea by simply taking a look
from a different lens I was able to come
up with a clever approach to help people
with the knee injuries I wanted to blow
the roof off that the traditional shit
therapies but more importantly I wanted
to break into this field but something
different and unique on how we go about
treating knee injuries one thing that
stood out to me was how the current
treatments for new therapies are
performed and how they differ from
cancer treatments sadly enough cancer is
a disease that&#39;s constantly changing and
evolving always masking itself causing
researchers to always figure out a way
to demolish cancer cancer treatments
unlike knee treatments have started
moving into a more personalized area
where they can focus on one specific
tumor and demolish it from the inside
out providing a localized targeted
therapy
unfortunately the field of orthopaedics
has not moved into the area of
personalized knee or joint but prepare
but what if we can start to take a look
at each specific need effect and
determining the severity of it is there
a way to go about looking at each
specific need of it defense
and determine how long a patient has
until their knee completely fails what
my research lab has developed is an
innovative way to solve this problem by
creating a scaffold that is an
injectable gel and contains the natural
lubricant found in the knee
in addition to adding therapeutic
molecules these therapeutic molecules in
conjunction with our gel provide a way
that we can look at each specific need
affect and treat it by controlling the
cell health and viability ensuring that
we can recreate those intricate
structures in cartilage now I&#39;m not
talking about rocket science but
biomedical engineering which is even
cooler and it allows us to do things
like 3d printing 3d printing has become
a hot commodity that allows us to make
anything we want using plastics but more
recently we&#39;ve started using selves and
hydrogels to make new tissue using
chemical design synthesis analysis and
3d bioprinting where we can 3d print
cells inside of gels to make intricate
structures that mirror cartilage but
also placing these 3d printed gels and
cells into a low oxygen or hypoxic
chamber that simulate these knee issues
or conditions and diseases of the knee
so how does it work
at the onset of a knee injury low oxygen
levels occur in the knee this low oxygen
environment doesn&#39;t allow the cells to
create the molecules that are essential
the mechanical stability decreases Wow
the inflammation and pain
probe the proteins affiliated with
information and playing increase this
low oxygen or hypoxic environment also
cultivates toxic free radicals I&#39;ve
demonstrated in my research lab that we
can increase the amounts of collagen
glucosamine and DA DNA using our gels
but to improve this technology we begun
incorporating therapeutic molecules to
provide a cell protective scaffold the
mechanism for how our therapeutic
molecules work are essentially by
exploiting the chemical properties of
the therapeutic molecules that allow us
to capture those toxic free radicals the
results show us that we increase the
number of collagen glucosamine and DNA
but ultimately we decrease the amounts
of inflammatory proteins this
cutting-edge therapeutic technology has
allowed me to create a predictive
analytic model that now can focus on one
specific knee injury and begin
incorporating yourselves that later will
successfully regenerate my cartilage
your cartilage our cartilage the future
of knee repair is moving towards a
personalized regenerative approach and I
personally want to help Americans have a
better quality of life with knee
problems and osteoarthritis because
wouldn&#39;t it be awesome if you could go
into the doctor and discuss a
personalized plan regarding improving
your knee pain and eliminating you
from having surgery thanks to this
preventative technology a well balanced
life and a new knee will help me you and
others feel fit fine and fabulous at the
age of 41 thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
