
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
a petrified row of mysterious fish
fossilized honey of wild bees tears of
birds petroleum that has solidified in
seawater at different times of Earth&#39;s
history trees started to cry and their
tears ran through mainland and settled
sunk into the soil it is believed that
it had flowed from an unknown pine
growing near various palm trees sweet
chestnuts eucalyptus magnolias oak
juniper and beech this is the fruit of
an ordinary tree but it is eternal light
floats spreads grows expands mixes and
disappears freezes reappears glints
light is a medium that makes objects
visible without being visible itself but
what if light meets with something in
its way in the trajectory of the journey
crawls slides and other material
projects other worlds spaces glows
images forms something abstract from
other times other worlds that have
changed a lot or have already gone
the metaphorical possession or use
arises because we understand light not
only as a physical phenomenon but also
as a medium that conveys content both
informative and emotional imagination an
emotional potential of artificial light
objects of light they are the progress
of civilization evolution transforming
night in today light is living material
and lives in prehistoric hands wheels
circles
it creates drawings of prehistoric
nature in walls of contemporary rooms
and spaces light is a functional and
poetical tool to reveal form color and
texture of amber this mineral interacts
in aesthetic as well as in scientific
categories
many million year-old plants and animals
embedded in amber a unique phenomenon of
nature birds feathers hairs of mammal
fur flying creatures small leaves
needles flowers and their parts small
twigs and seeds in wittich color hail
lemon yellow brown blue green almost
black amber transparent sarcophaguses
allow the observations for scientists as
well as to others a glance an invitation
to amber forest forests that no longer
exist the device transmits light colors
of amber optical effects interferences
and interactions of a light a Beamer of
amber is an optical device created from
metals and other elements a Bheema of
amber a device resembles a telescope it
consists of a nine volt LED flashlight
with a narrow angle lens power supply a
focus track 4 volt engine and a narrow
angle lens a device is tested it doesn&#39;t
create any side effects for amber amber
is sensitive to the change of
temperature focusing changing a position
of amber in a light source and in
optical lens it highlights cracks
inclusions in an amber and color gamma
in a three-dimensional image
[Music]
an expression of analog view
visualization is one of the most
essential moments of this project taking
you into amber forest pinus suckin fara
surrounding roughly fifty million years
ago the amber forests probably covered a
vast area of Scandinavia the climate was
sub tropical tropical allowing palms
magnolias cypresses cinnamon trees
orchids the amber producing conifers to
grow in the southern coastal regions now
you cannot find any amber panes only the
amber survived remained
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
