
[Music]
when one is asked why it is so important
study history the most common answer
given is to learn from the past to
better the future but when we look back
at events such as the Holocaust we
realize that this just isn&#39;t true we
visited Auschwitz to learn firsthand how
the mass genocide 70 years ago is still
affecting us globally today and to
realize the true scale of what happened
there I know that we would all agree on
the horrific nature of the Holocaust all
come together and saying though we would
never participate in any act of genocide
we individually preached acceptance and
global love yet we have not come
together as a species
putting race religion and background
aside from seeing each individual as
just that an individual one would think
after seeing and hearing about the
largest act of genocide in history where
the ethnic cleansing of 11 million Jews
homosexuals gypsies and undesirables
took place history could never be
repeated sadly that just isn&#39;t the case
the Cambodian genocide 33% of the total
population murdered Durrell and in
genocide 70% of Tutsis in Rwanda
murdered the Bangladesh genocide of
three million murdered the east more
genocide 44 percent of the total
population murdered as well as that of
the as arks the Kurds the Guatemalans
the Bosnians and still happening to date
the genocide of the CD&#39;s by the Islamic
state and the genocide of their hunger
people in Myanmar so how can we say that
we have learned from the Holocaust it
has eased formed the mindset there being
no hope for the future when you&#39;ve just
heard of ten acts of mass genocide in
the past seventy years but that is how
we let history repeat itself we cannot
let the things expose to our children
form their understandings beliefs and
actions when the world is still filled
with such hatred
they are the next generation to go on
and shape the world around us and if
they continue to be exposed to such
hostility then there will never be any
change this is ava Moses coal under
sister Miriam she survived Auschwitz
despite being subjected to inhumane
medical experiments laid by the so
called Angel of Death yours of Mengele
she said that one way for survivors to
heal themselves is to forgive your worst
enemy and set themselves free whilst our
arch fits we were introduced to the
diaries of Zalman Grotowski a Polish
prisoner who was forced to work on the
Sandy Hook mondo unit and was forced to
aid with the disposal of gas chamber
victims he kept a diary and deliberately
hid it under ground to be found one day
in one extract he says dear finder the
real reason why I write is so that my
doomed life may attain some meaning that
my hellish days and hopeless tomorrows
may find a purpose in the future I pass
on to only a small part of what took
place in Birkenau outfits it is for you
to comprehend the reality even though
what happened at Auschwitz was horrific
and must never be forgotten we should
take strength from those who survived it
and take action for those who didn&#39;t
thank you for listening
you
