
[Music]
imagine if everyone in the world
simultaneously was a little more playful
and a little more delighted imagine the
psychological physiological and social
impact this could have if by adding play
to parts of our lives we collectively
became a little more motivated and a
little more happy imagine if we all work
together a little more and the
difference this could make globally
games have the power to achieve this
games hack your brain they activate your
limbic system and release feel-good
hormones that&#39;s what makes games so
popular so engaging and so powerful the
mechanics used in game design are not
limited to cards boards and video games
they&#39;re all around you think about it
every time you earn status points by
flying every time you buy that ninth
coffee to get one free every time you
work hard in school to get an A instead
of a B and every time you bribe your
child to eat their vegetables with the
promise of dessert you are engaging with
a game mechanic game mechanics are
already affecting your life gamification
is about using these mechanics to design
an experience to engage users to solve
real-world problems it&#39;s about applying
a game layer on top of the real world an
example is the piano stairs the aim was
simple get people to take the stairs
instead of the escalator by placing
tactile piano keys onto the stairs
people could create music as they walked
and burn a few extra calories while
having fun the result a 66% increase in
people taking the stairs
companies like Fitbit are also using
elements of gamification to encourage
you to exercise more fitbit&#39;s app tracks
your exercise gives you daily challenges
lets you compete with friends and
rewards you with badges
another example is chores which turns
your household into a game the members
of your household choose a character a
wizard an elf an orc and you compete
against each other to do household
chores 10 points for making the bed 20
points for doing the dishes and 30
points for taking out the trash current
examples of gamification tend to rely on
simple mechanics like points badges and
leaderboards and a lot of them rely on
competition but there&#39;s a lot more to
gamification than badges and competition
and it has the potential to help us
achieve great things together I fell in
love I fell in love with gamification
when I discovered that it could nudge
behavior in the real world I designed an
experience for my colleagues at think
place to encourage a range of team
behaviors from daily irritants like
tithing a mess and submitting a form to
strategically critical behaviors like
sharing knowledge and building culture
by showing appreciation for each other
this is a mechanic we developed it&#39;s
called a mess monster you place it on a
mess to one signal that this is a messy
area that needs cleaning and to empower
people to clean it before most monsters
cleaning was kind of annoying it was
frustrating especially if it wasn&#39;t your
mess after miss monsters cleaning was
kind of fun after all
you&#39;re capturing monsters and cleaning
rewarded you and your team this is just
one example of how we used a game
mechanic
to reframe daily behaviors through fun
in my PhD research in gamification my
work with clients I am driven by the
question of how we can use gamification
to delight to celebrate and to achieve
great things I&#39;ve worked with many
clients to apply gamification in their
contexts from government departments to
schools and restaurants and I found that
all of them are trying something new
because they understand that current
approaches to engaging people are not
enough global trends in technology
flexible and employee centered
workplaces and generational expectations
are just a few of the converging trends
driving gamified experiences Gartner
research predicts that 50% of businesses
will have at least one gamified process
by the end of 2018 a global workforce
study by Towers Perrin found that less
than one-third of employees are
meaningfully engaged in their work
a study by Tallinn LMS found that 79% of
learners so that they would be more
productive if their education was more
game-like and by 2025 three out of four
workers will be Millennials who have
grown up on video games as digital
natives Millennials have grown up in an
era of Technology and of high
expectations for being engaged these
trends show the demand for more engaging
and user centered experiences our
standards for how engage with brands
products companies and workplaces is
increasing we expect to be engaged we
expect to have experiences designed and
tailored for us and we want to be part
of something bigger than ourselves that
connects us meaningfully with each other
and with a purpose
this is where I see gamification going
but to understand what gamification
truly is and how to realize its
potential for behavioral and social
change we need a framework I&#39;d like to
share the four orders of gamification my
framework to better understand implement
and evaluate gamification experiences
there are four orders and they go up in
complexity based on the number of people
playing and interacting the types of
behaviors being incentivized the
duration of time the experience goes for
and how much integration there is with
everyday life the first order playful
design is about engaging for a moment
it&#39;s about fun her simple or no rules
and it engages for a short amount of
time the piano stairs is a great example
of this order second order transactional
gamification is about encouraging task
completion by individuals with some
interaction with others the mechanics
here tend to be simple like points
badges and leaderboards and a lot of
examples here rely on competition chore
wars is an example of transactional
gamification and this is where the
majority of gamification applications
stop but what if we took it further what
if we took it beyond competition only
experiences and work together for
collective good this is where third
order social gamification comes in it&#39;s
about more complex and social behaviors
like sharing knowledge collaborating
innovating here the experience goes for
months and years with the groups like
organizations and communities playing
and there is meaningful integration with
everyday life
there aren&#39;t many examples here yet but
they will include teams and workplaces
working towards organizational
objectives through a game of fight
experience they will involve sporting
teams rewarding ongoing training effort
and team spirit and they will involve
schools creating more engaging learning
environments and curriculum structures
fourth-order systemic gamification is
about gamifying at scale here a large
variety of behaviors are being
incentivized the experience runs for
years groups as large as communities and
entire nations are playing and
interacting and there is substantial
merging with everyday life this is a
somewhat theoretical level but there is
a current pilot in China that is
exploring this notion
it&#39;s called sesame credit and it&#39;s about
gamifying China&#39;s citizens citizens
receive a score based on their social
media activity and online purchases the
higher your score the more easily of
access to things like booking our hotel
without a deposit easier access to loans
and having applications processed faster
the sesame credit score has become so
valued that some people are even putting
it onto their online dating profile
sesame credit is creating a meta-level
game experience for citizens across
their life with their game score having
a very real impact on their life the
four orders of gamification framework is
powerful because it defines the impact
we&#39;re making directs the mechanics we
use and guides how we evaluate outcomes
the piano stairs won&#39;t address the
obesity epidemic because you need a
third and fourth order gamification to
do that but the piano stairs will change
behavior in the moment if we want to
create social and systemic level change
we need third and fourth order
gamification I see gamification
not something new or innovative I see
gamification as the new norm imagine
replacing our current school system with
its archaic Industrial Age set up with a
gamer fide one
what if and Serve grading students by
age and giving them only one chance to
succeed on an on an exam students became
players and could choose their own
education adventure what if students
could choose which subject areas to
master and try again and again while
having fun what if they could learn from
peers who had already mastered a subject
and instead of being labeled as cheating
were instead rewarded with points and
badges for collaboration and helpfulness
imagine if we were all playing the game
of environmental sustainability that
your household received points every
time you switched off the lights put out
the recycling bin cycled instead of
drove and used reusable shopping bags
imagine that your household level of
sustainability gave you discounts on
your bill funded the planting of trees
in your local neighborhood and donated
to wildlife funds imagine if cities work
together as teams and we competed
against the other cities in our country
and then our individual and collective
effort could be celebrated so that we
could see how our daily actions affect
the health of our city our country and
our world
I see gamification as the key to nudging
behavior individually and collectively
to achieve great things
I see gamification as a better way to
connect with each other
to address the critical problems we face
today I leave you with this thought life
and work don&#39;t need to be so serious
life and work can be fun
[Applause]
