
[Music]
BAM POW Zam all of the autumn appears
sprinkled over the pages of our
childhood and what do they invoke for
you do images of Saturday morning
cartoons fill your head like they do
mine the superheroes who&#39;d fly across
the screen and almost seem to fly out of
them who would have troubles they always
solve and just a nick of time
the amazingly smart and strong champions
of Justice goodwill humility and all the
other stuff that I honestly could have
cared less about as a seven-year-old
these were the images that filled my
mind and as I grew my love for
superheroes evolved from cartoons to
toys to trading cards and finally
settled on comic books this was around
the time when the Iron Man movies were
starting to gain popularity so I was
overjoyed at the sheer amount of stuff
that there was for me to consume for the
last few years I have loyally watched
all the movies and read the arts and the
comic books that corresponded with I
would squeal like a dying whale in the
theaters when I caught references that I
smugly assume most people missed
superheroes are so seeped into our
culture that escaping the giantess
elongated spider and infamous bat seems
to be impossible and as a compa fan I
love this I love how the superhero craze
allows movies to be created from the
Palin&#39;s I have known since I was little
I love how every Barnes and Noble that I
have been in within the last five years
has had a comic book section I love the
merge and the posters I love how all no
now overhear conversations about these
heroes because liking them is no longer
uncool I love this regenerated era of
superheroes with these heroes whom I so
dearly love I can find fascist myself
reflected upon best parts of humanity as
I hold them to the highest my ideals I
can see my value reflected in their
struggles I think that we all do this
trying to find ourselves and others
this is because people are social
creatures even those of us who don&#39;t
want to be around others all the time
humanity finds itself within itself we
as be full define who we are and measure
with others both in whom we relate to
and whom we most definitely do not
within Heroes within this new age of
comic books our projected selves can be
found in the bed
of people within comic books a
representation can be realized but like
every New Age it carries over problems
from the past and the mutated issues of
a contemporary society however we cannot
comprehend the implications of these
complications without first diving into
the comic book origin story so I ask of
you my most super of listeners to join
me in a tale of ultraviolence propaganda
and fear Bradford W Wright explains in
the comic book nation how comic books as
we know them today began in 1938 with
the beginnings of Superman - boys
created him as a daydream and with this
fantasy spawned an industry Detective
Comics is struggling financially in a
business ran out of New York took up the
hero and broke into mainstream media by
being different than the funny comics at
min most of the graphic stories being
produced and soon followed born into the
gritty desire to be edgy and bad through
creating a spoof of the night many more
soon popped up and it was no time at all
before the American youth was captivated
but here&#39;s where the problems began to
arise
Travis Langley in his book Batman in
psychology explains how people thought
that violence was on the rise in the
1950s a committee was even formed to
read out the cause of this new ultra
violence especially among the American
youth the spotlight landed on comic
books with Frederic wertham book
seduction of the innocent ascent blamed
solely on comic book shoulders
indicating that they were the cause of
juvenile delinquency how did he come to
this conclusion by interviewing youth
about what they did since many of them
read comic books he concluded that they
must be the single root of the problem
the fact that many of them went to the
movies or played baseball or had missing
parents that didn&#39;t matter the his book
was a success so much of a success that
he went before the Senate Subcommittee
on juvenile delinquency and testified
that they need to be censored for the
public good so much of a success that he
won and the comic code authority was
instituted limiting this tales only the
cleanest stories imaginable no real
issues were addressed for years and the
authority will never officially
disbanded lost almost all of its hold in
the 1980s and it was then that there
were press stories and newer culture of
the last 30 years took a hold in the
fiction typer everything for a while
okay
that&#39;s an interesting enough story if
we&#39;re talking about court cases I
understand if it feels a bit distant and
a bit dumb it&#39;s important to understand
that history in order to see the reasons
why these restrictions work and why they
matter because the values of today are
very different from the values of the
1950s and it would not happen that way
today not for the same reasons and not
for the same people yes we look over to
comic books and what do we see well
Virginia gerd and Spencer foster see
learning mechanisms they think that we
can teach using comic books because
they&#39;re universally appealing narratives
no matter a person&#39;s background they can
be applied to classrooms from studies of
everything from environmental issues to
business and the own theoretical
schooling they have real-world impacts
even immersed in of science news no
science fiction comics inspire
scientists to make real change Iron Man
has influenced the design of robotic
walkers Bionic assistance and
exoskeletons that might even help
paralyzed people walk again that sounds
like an amazing idea some of you might
be a little reluctant to engaging Howard
books is something serious but over
their long and genuine history there
have been many different runs of
different types whose lessons are as
extensive if not more so than any other
medium why because comic books represent
the extremes of humanity Superman shows
us the human ideal the Greek like hero
who is strong and just and humble enough
to hide it for the common good
his is altruism taken to the next level
doing so much good for no reward or
recognition other than the pure act of
doing good Batman and many of his runs
the Superman&#39;s grittier shadow a
vengeful and mysterious ghost routed in
tragedy and driven by it and their tails
along with almost every other characters
represent the extremes of humanity this
great capacity allows lessons to stand
out in perfect relief to showcase and
friend a narrative alongside the ideals
that we strive for yet this great
platform also allows for the problems to
appear in the same way that Batman is
the mirror image of Superman except
darker and edgier comic book
discrepancies show up even more clearly
when juxtaposed with the values
portrayed within them what are these
ever elusive problems I keep talking
around whatever actually addressing
there are a few but most of them stim
around one issue representation I know
you know a lot of people think that you
hear this enough already
it&#39;s a noble thing but it&#39;s overused and
overplayed I can&#39;t we talk about
something else for once not everything
can be about representation all I do is
talk and it&#39;s all just white noise but
representation is important we&#39;re
entering a new era of comic-book history
a new era of history altogether nan
front we leave is influenced and
recorded by the media that we consume
and right now with the immense
popularity and influence of these
comic-book stories within our country
our world is it&#39;s especially important
to really look at how much influence
they have how important can may be you
might wonder and it make ok movies all
but how much sway do they actually have
well according to Business Insider in
2013 they drew an eight hundred and
seventy million dollars in comic book
sales alone Marvel&#39;s net worth is valued
at four billion dollars and this isn&#39;t
including DC who has been around longer
and who has just as big of a fan base
what cannot be disputed is the influence
of media on the way that we think and
this is not an issue that has loosened
its hold as we&#39;ve continued through the
years know if anything this is an even
more important discussion to hold today
Christopher Bell a professor of Media
Studies says that we live in a hundred
percent media saturated society with
this mass media that we cannot escape it
touches almost every part of our human
existence in some way and it exists as
corporate entities six of whom produce
nine out of every ten movies you watch
nine out of every ten television
television shows nine out of every ten
books nine out of every ten songs and
these companies like Disney market to
specific audiences leaving female
superheroes out from the merch and the
conversation in fact out of the thirty
full-length films that will be released
between 2015 and 2020 they&#39;re only two
of them will have female solo leads two
out of thirty Christensen is elaborate
and Assefa see even further the only
female superhero movie so far has been
Electra a low-budget film from 2005 from
before the mass popularity of superhero
movies and though this is improving in
some ways like Thor getting a new female
reboot TV shows like Jessica Jones and
the new Wonder Woman movie both DC and
Marvel have hired known erotic artists
to draw their female characters in
recent years this objectification
doesn&#39;t even match up with what you
would think the number
might be 45% of the compa community is
populated by females yet the main female
characters like Black Widow and Gomorrah
are still denied any merchandise and
women don&#39;t even have control over their
own narratives both DC and Marvel have
hundreds of men writing and drawing
their comics but as of September 2014 DC
had 20 women creators and Marvel only
had 12 this hyper heteronormative
outlook often hurts men too with absurd
bodies in impractical stoic eNOS
no one is escaping this unscathed
obviously there are some very deep
systemic problems within the comic book
industry and the same thing can be
applied to matters of race of sexuality
and expression of every facet of
identity that is being erased changed or
manipulated by these six companies who
intend to marginalize over adapting to
the modern market biases will be
established and due to the relatively
low exposure of things that challenge
these notions
they are hammered into our heads and if
people of color are only represented as
villains if men and women are only
represented through impossible ideals if
LGBTQ continues to be a punchline
if identity is erased then these ideas
will diffuse across our society if not
by controlling our thoughts and in my
controlling our conversations okay so
there&#39;s a social to go to these
companies and demand they become more
inclusive that certainly is a part of it
sure numbers hold sway as well but these
companies are not masters at place
aiding crowds and avoiding real
substantial promises when we need people
with their demands we also need people
doing other subtler things
so should we hate comic books out
altogether no because that erases an
important medium of expression and since
they reflect only in the most hyperbolic
versions of the society that we already
live in their very real deficit that
needs to be changed and not simply swept
under the carpet now to our minds all
right and what am i advocating for what
is the purpose of the speech why am I
even talking about this I believe that
what we need now more than ever is to be
aware I believe in ideas about teaching
I believe that comic books could inspire
new successes across many fields
I think the comic books represent a
unique
opportunity to bridge divides especially
now with more people than ever
assimilating in a comeback culture we
must have her account for the problems
the representation that is missing or
misconducted but even this can be a
learning opportunity if we adjust to
these hyperbolic means then they can
serve as a discussion point with them
sub went Li displayed conversation can
be polarized around comic books those
people who are protesting and urging for
well-written parts that represent
themselves are doing important work this
is partly because it might change the
minds of those in charge might convince
people that it matters but just as
importantly it gets people talking it
galvanizes change through spearheading
the dialogue by opening up the
conversation and this is what I am
advocating for we must account for the
problems by talking about them there is
good in comic books which might finally
rise to the surface in this modern era
there is bad in comic books which might
finally be discussed but as people we
must weigh both of them it&#39;s not a fight
between heroes and villains is not a
fight between our good and bad sides it
is a struggle that we are all engaged in
together as communal beings striving to
find who we are in this tangle of
humanity is our human endeavor to try to
find out what exactly that means and how
can we if that image is distorted by
inaccurate representation there is
misrepresentation everywhere the comic
books with their old history and new
popularity with their hyperbolic lessons
and problems with their heroes and their
villains are a good place to start what
do you think this conversation will be
in 5 years and 10 and 20 hopefully these
issues will mellow but that cannot
happen if we do not have an exchange
first what if we use conflicts as
reflections of ourselves to show who we
want to be to show ourselves and the
light that we deserve to be in I want
this shining future and I hope that you
do too so join me in my quest to show
the right people in the right places and
to bring in a new better era of comic
books
thank you
you
