
having served in the armed forces for 30
years
and handed over my life to other
comrade-in-arms having survived that and
switch has given me some very keen
insights
there&#39;s a wonderful dialectic which goes
on first
and the camaraderie of the armed force
and the extreme cunning and them I see
in the corporate world
there is a dichotomy there to be
carefully observed as they&#39;re the forces
have a very well nurtured collective
psyche in the ecosystem Venus the
business world is driven by greed
quickly saw but this greed tends to be
driven by fear of insecurity and
instability in the society that is it
sets a vicious cycle so let me let me
narrate to you to live battle incidence
please don&#39;t get carried over by them
try and understand and feel how the
collective psyche of Armed Forces
becomes the bedrock of such incidents
see isolation the highest and the
coldest battlefield or not seventy
kilometers of glaciated terrain very
fiercely held by the indian army troops
for last almost three decades the feet
go from 14,000 to 21,000 feet above sea
level the temperatures in peak winters
touch minus 70 degrees centigrade these
posts are maintained by parachutes
dropping all the logistic loads in the
glacier the Air Force does that flies in
every morning from Chandigarh drops the
notes at the glacier thereafter they are
pulled by the troops by the snow
scooters which you can see in the bottom
most image onto the posts they grow in
body pairs and pull the nodes on to the
post and that is how the survival goes
on in 1992 peak winter time
like this happened there was a snow
blizzard which is a common phenomena in
the winter when the winter set in and
the snow blizzards typically start in
the afternoon say about 1 o&#39;clock in the
afternoon and had taken place the bodies
the troops were out from the post with
the small scooters to get the loads back
to the post
and the got caught in the snow blizzard
when I say blizzard the wind speeds
thickness rarefied atmosphere pick up to
70 kilometres an hour and it&#39;s an
absolute white blanket of snow and it
doesn&#39;t seem to stop in one of those a
body pair got separated from each other
while some of the lucky boys they make
it back to the post
one guy was missing with the snow
scooter
he was a Maratha like many of you here
Naik my name is his name so the it kept
on snowing through the night starting in
the afternoon today through the night
till wee hours of next morning
presumably such guys it is presumed that
the worst would have happened however
true to the collective psyche of the
Armed Forces
early morning next day with the weather
opened up we flew in from the Basecamp
army would never leave smartness dead or
alive they will have to be recovered so
we flew into the glacier just if there
are any traces of anything absolute
white snow two helicopters we always
flying pair there the front helicopter
he observed this perfect circle in the
slaw
I dunno a perfect circle in the snow he
radioed I believe a second helicopter
he bent down to see what it is and he
just radioed that he can see a movement
there the helipad was stamped out by the
infantry guys and helicopters landed
honey had crawled on inches because he&#39;s
training knew if he stops his blood will
freeze if he keeps moving he may survive
he was picked up lost his toes frostbite
all those things happened I remember
again in the hospital in Canada I asked
him one thing one sentences heads up hum
charmer otter hey hey Bolton taiga he a
madman god this is a collective sigh
clear Armed Forces he could have well be
left there
there was no reason for us to you know
get into that kind of a minion but this
is this is what differentiates our
forces from the civil world let me get
you two there for whatever the
geopolitical reasons will not go into
that
Indian Army as a peacekeeping force
operations in jungle warfare against
ltte when the fiercest Barilla warfare
organizations of the century this was a
kind of terrain we were operating there
were jungles and with impurity days to
blow up flags and blow up and an army
suffered huge losses there
again captives on 72 and 89
we took off from abyss I was flying
armed helicopters at that time we took
off for a training sortie with two
machine gunners on board they just find
us
the machine gunners we always used to
take short height goodra&#39;s who could
almost dead we were routine and for them
water body to make them fire we were
flying along the Giavotella Mojave at
2,000 feet good comfortable height Oh
body of our own indeed our vehicles in a
disarray on the highway slowly something
agronomists and Beaver gotta well be the
collective psyche again we had to look
at it
we came down a little
and we could make out there&#39;s a fire
fight going on and ltte they were
masters in springing some fantastic with
a sip see when we came down sir for
lying dead who was the seal he himself
was manning the machine gun
he lost his boys he said I will not live
with the ignominy of having lost a
weapon in battle so he was he was so
possessive about it became de someone
with the helicopter I was in the right
side I&#39;ve been looking outside not sure
how my daughter will fire first time we
told him to fire we spotted some entity
guys as he opened the machine they got
about 15 of them
[Music]
and what was the pyramid
[Music]
it will give you night the legs together
will be thrilling music under par
religions and beliefs and
my possible in for almost all night

15:06 constant there
the
Oh
mr.
what is the word
[Music]
listen to the national interest laws in
India
Oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the Interceptor
okay
[Applause]
