
[Music]
before I got on this stage one of my
peers told me don&#39;t forget your mother
is your people so this is for my people
my mother&#39;s hands never tremble I used
to watch her stamp solid roots of
cassava into fufu flour with them first
outside together with my aunts stamping
cassava into fufu with nothing but those
bare hands of theirs later when we
arrived at the asylum seeking center my
mother made fufu alone one could say I
come from a long line of women whose
voices never shook rather shook the
spaces they walked into whose hands and
feet never trembled but mine it all
abruptly started with me I think I
tremble because I&#39;m afraid I&#39;m
chronically afraid afraid of unbel
awning see I grew up not knowing what
specific identity to subscribe to and
fellow redondela fire stood on the same
stage asking her listeners as the
similar question she said I am a
first-generation migrant I am a third
culture kid and my rootless or am I free
I read I remember sitting behind my desk
top hearing these words speak to me and
feeling my stomach dropped
to my needs I did not know the answer to
this question but what I did know is
that it had revealed an emptiness I had
been seeking to fill inside I was five
years old when I first set foot on Dutch
soul and stepped into its sharp February
weather I don&#39;t particularly recall if
the tears in my eyes were from the cold
this unknown land was blowing in my face
or from the Soraa of the land we had
just left behind my parents and I had
fled a warzone and it&#39;s aftermath
my mother university graduates at the
peak of her career but upon arrival we
had to start from scratch and it is
through this overnight loss of our sense
of cells and belonging in this world
that came to shape my critical
reflections about that world order about
our politics on global migration about
how those politics influence migrant
women see I was confronted with the
aftermath of these migration policies at
an early age watch them push communities
of color to the margins of society and
by margins I mean half of the kids I
grew up with did not even know what pre
university levels were and the other
half just gave up before trying giving
our social economic context so a desire
to understand these processes of
exclusion has characterized my life ever
since this longing for a deeper
understanding of our identity and place
in society is called acculturation
a culturation is a social political
concept that explains what happens when
a minority group joins a majority
culture and loses parts of his own and
aside from culture loss can also be
experienced in terms of life Lee hood
in terms of social economics my
university graduated month who have to
work day and nightshifts who had to work
a minimum-wage job to provide for our
family so a lot the large part of my own
existence has revolved around this
search for an identity one-fourth
Iijima men when your calls diaspora
blues where the diaspora where to
foreign for home where to foreign for
here which may make us never enough for
both in the context of globalization and
a globalized refugee crisis more and
more first second and third generation
immigrant kids will come to experience
acculturation see always before that
scene at the Dutch airport I was
standing in front of my grandmother&#39;s
Chum Gugu who looked up to her face as
we said goodbye
I was holding no squeezing her hand
really tight as if I knew what would
come next my grandmother who named me
moon ganya she whose voice cannot go
unheard my grandmother then gently
pressed my baby brother against my
mother&#39;s chest turned to me with eyes
that said you are not one yet dear child
of mine when you get to the other side
of that ocean you will have to start
working twice as hard to get half of
what others get my parents would come to
raise me with lips that repeated the
same but twice as hard to get half of
was under sket I didn&#39;t even know who
those others were and I most certainly
did not know what made me so different
from them but it was almost immediately
upon arrival that my own life
made more room around my perceived other
illness it became clear to me it was my
first day at school I had attended
kindergarten in French in Ronda but my
tongue had quickly adapted to learn
clicking at the rhythms of this new
Dutch language I was telling my new
classmates my name Union they rolled my
tongue and baladi with pride when I
finished introducing myself my new
teacher looked up surprised and said
cristela if I were to close my eyes I
think you were a real Dutch girl I went
home super super confused she becoming
Dutch in a European context does not
equal becoming white like my elementary
school teacher thought to me a
culturation rather means thriving within
the geographic context that we were
given at arrival today as a political
scientist who conducts research on the
position of Africans in Europe I&#39;ve come
to realize the significant impact
African descendants have had on the
European continent throughout centuries
today I count 24 vibrant years of life
between Kigali Eindhoven Amsterdam Paris
and Brussels I have indeed become afro
peon but along that path I&#39;ve come to
realize how dangerous these
microaggressions are such as my
elementary school teacher told me to
immigrant kids and their acculturation
process my writing has centered around
this awareness I know now that forging
an SOP and identity is a political act
it is one that allows for the existence
of
African communities in the European
imagination what a means is that we
collectively allow ourselves to imagine
that regardless of the place we may call
home we exist to thrive even in this
placement when I close my eyes you
almost become like a real Dutch girl was
said what I heard is black girl you are
to be heard but not to be seen
reflecting back on it makes me realize
how the Dutch gaze so the cultural
perception we have of being Dutch of
being European had never allowed for my
background as an immigrant and a feeling
of belonging to co-exist but I am to be
seen we are to be seen black girl black
woman black Sam you are to be seen with
a face estranged from the motherland
here am i daughter of the country of a
Thousand Hills reroute to the land of
nun here am i I am Alive I am resilence
I have become afro peon
I am moon Galindez acculturated I am NOT
rootless I am free
