
[Music]
[Applause]
I was born on a stone&#39;s throw away from
the National border between the
Netherlands and Germany in a street at
school of the hands beer what can be
translated as on border hill I grew up
in the borderlands a stroke of lands on
both sides the border that is shaped and
influenced by the nearness of the border
and that nearness always made me curious
it felt and it still feels different on
being on the other sides a different
landscape different people different
music different traffic signs nowadays
as a PhD candidate working for fountas
crossing borders and Albert University
I&#39;m concerned to the cross-border
cooperation on a daily basis and due to
all this I&#39;m able to get around on both
sides
I am a border lender here in Venlo we
have very close to the national border
as you may all know but what do you know
about the other sides do you know for
example the lunch of spark north and do
you know which party has won the
elections in the federal state North
Westphalia in May this year and would
you apply for a job in Germany or should
I ask are you able to apply for a job in
Germany the problem is that we don&#39;t
know our neighbors anymore our parents
they spontaneously learns the German
culture and the German language for
example watching television these and
who meets their mouth a circle of 50
kilometers approximately was the
determination of the daily urban system
all the focus was on the own region but
nowadays fewer people speak German at
Primary School we learn about freesia
and zealand&#39;s but nothing about your
lower Rhine area for example
Nidoran as a consequence that people
regard to border at the end of the
country as a barrier as an unknown area
it is of utmost
importance but the German awareness will
raise again in the near future and
therefore my idea is that everyone
should get a chance to become a border
lender a border lender is someone who is
able to get around in both sized border
who is able to make opportunities of
both sides of the border someone who
sees and perceives the border as a
beginning as he chance or even as a
blessing
someone who celebrates and exploits the
border as a unique selling point I
became a border lender by coincidence
and have experienced the advantages of
being one I know many interesting sites
and landmarks in the borderland and as a
border lender I&#39;m able to both visited
Bundesliga and Eredivisie I can buy a
house in Germany since I know how the
housing market works on the other side I
know I&#39;m familiar with a culture
including the business culture and I
speak their language the German language
and for that reason I have more
opportunities within an hour&#39;s drive job
opportunities than an hour&#39;s drive
so regarding considering the border as a
chance gives me a unique selling
proposition compared to other people who
close their eyes for the other side of
the border a situation arises of one
plus one is three but before I further
explain why it is so important to become
a border lender and why we don&#39;t need to
move to the home store for example to
become successful
let me first check how many border
lenders are here today in the audience
so let me ask you a couple of questions
who has ever been shopping in Germany
please raise your hands okay most of you
and we&#39;ve used ever been working in
Germany a little less my last question
is who has ever been living in Germany
only a few well obviously I&#39;m not that
surprised
buddy the few people raised their hand
since only 0.12 percent of all the
employees in the Netherlands is working
in German
and 0.11% the automata way around
that&#39;s almost nothing and I think that
strikingly since we have already had
open internal European borders for many
many decades the question remains why is
it so important to become a boiler
lender well first of all for the
regional interest demographics are
changing fewer young people live in this
region and it is expected that in 2040
in all the regional municipalities the
number of young people will be decreased
enormously with an average of minus 25
percent but an interesting question is
why are they leaving well because they
are not border lenders they are not able
to make use of all the opportunities
around them they only use half of the
potential 50 percent what scientifically
is called the half Moone syndrome and
for that reason we should make
opportunities visible and accessible
it&#39;s not only for a regional interest
but also for a personal interest and if
we do nothing this region will become a
deserted place at place where people
will leave and if people leave
facilities leave as well like
supermarkets hospitals sports clubs etc
according to scientific numbers it is
very very difficult to attract new
people to the region since 93% stays
within the region when they are moving
so buying a new house for example the
only mobile group of people the other
remaining 7% our students and the
graduates but they are particularly
leaving this region at the moment so for
that reason it is very very important
that we change the
Halfmoon into a full moon so that
becomes attractive to stay here
so that we create unique selling
proposition for people here in the
border region and there are
opportunities in this border region
this map shows how many jobs are
accessible within an hour&#39;s drive the
redder the color the more jobs are
accessible if we only take national jobs
into account this region is not the most
attractive form in the Netherlands as
you can see but if we do take foreign
jobs into accounts both in Belgium as
well as in Germany especially from this
region around family there are more jobs
available than from many cities in their
own stores and other border regions
along the Dutch German border more so
while moving to the run start here you
have more jobs cheaper houses more open
space arounds this is the place to be
and real well I think the only condition
is that the region raises enough border
lenders moreover there are so many other
reasons to change the perspective to
Germany not only for regional or
personal interest but as well for the
national interests thinking about
intensive trade relations between both
countries especially between the
Netherlands and North rhine-westphalia
the second intensive trade relation in
the world after trade connections
between the United States of America and
Canada
and not to forget the importance of
language a German business partner when
we are talking about trade still
appreciates and prefers it when a
business partner speaks German language
so it will be a disaster if less and
less people learn to speak speak German
at school or as the Austrian British
philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein once
adds the cleansing - bracha brought
integrins and minor else the Lehman&#39;s of
my language mean the limits of my world
but the question remains how can we
to fight people to become water lenders
how can we raise the awareness well i
advocate to exploit the border as a
central concept in education a
continuous educational program starting
at primary school will definitely change
the perspective bring children into
contact with german children let them
play discover and learn together the
border as a unique selling proposition
for our region as an important tool in
21st century to connect different
cultures pay attention to our own region
in courses as geography history and
culture education and bring students for
example together through sports or
another example organize cross-border
excursions and cross-border internships
as we do for example to form this
University of Applied Sciences give
young professionals a unique selling
proposition by enabling them to find a
job on both sides and in each initiative
an educational institution should ask
myself the question does it have any
edits failure for the future of our
children to involve our neighbors and
finally I would like to make a call to
you do you have children or
grandchildren
then go with them on a discovery tour in
Germany celebrate a border huge pass
[Music]
you
