
[Music]
[Applause]
so this creature which crawl so that the
screen is not an alien from the outer
space this is just a tiny water flea
transferred from the Caspian Sea in
ballast water to the Baltic it&#39;s quite
as it has kind of a small border just
two millimeters but the tail is long
it&#39;s about one sinan centimetres when
millions of such creatures appear in the
water they in mesh by their tails are
forming cotton like lamps which cloak
fishery nets and the fishermen instead
of catching fish they are supposed to
clean their nets this is example of one
of the biological invasions which a
phenomenon which interests me as a
researcher for many recent years the
biological invasions in a broad sense is
a movement of organisms to areas where
they did not previously occur beyond the
limits for many year millions of years
the continents were isolated one from an
hour forming the amazing diversity and
distinctive distribution of life which
we call by geographical provinces in
recent decades biological invasions are
mostly caused by humans at an increasing
rate they are changing they are moving
species intentionally or unintentionally
between continents and we are mixing the
world&#39;s living organisms like the is
Chinese sweetened crop which was moved
from China to Germany and spread all
over Europe like the round goby which
came to the Baltic Sea and the Great
Lakes of North America from the from the
Black Sea like the North American calm
jelly which appeared in the Black Sea
and the Caspian Sea and so on and so on
the human mediated invasions are one of
the unavoidable consequences of the
global change this is a snapshot of the
marine traffic just one day of a marine
traffic there you have see you can see
the different types of American ships
they are moving cargo and at the same
time they are moving hundreds and
thousands of tons of ballast water just
amazing the size of Olympic swimming
pool each ship is moving several tens
sometimes hundreds of Olympic pools of
water and this water the vast number of
coastal organisms will be released will
be taken in one port and released in an
hour this is what is called ecological
roulette because we cannot actually
predict their which species will end up
not only ships also trains airplanes and
road transport are involved in the
transportation of organisms for
aquaculture life food trade talking of
sport fish for garden food and so on and
it is a growth in the world trade
removal of custom barriers increased
movement of people and anthropogenic
change in the environment has what has
led to change in geography of living
species and invasion starts usually in
the area where species is native then
the organist get into a career with the
ship or train or airplane and once they
are being transported over the
environmental barrier which maybe was
space of the open ocean mountains
deserts which we cannot overcome
normally then a small part of its
organisms survive the transportation and
arrive to a new environment then if
lucky some of them may settle here in
survive then if
additions are suitable there is enough
food known as the enemy&#39;s sufficient
space for living a small part of the
survivors may start to multiply and
expand in a new invaded area this is how
a biological invasion happens the impact
of biological invasions of introduced
invasive species sometimes are very
serious an introduced pathogen can
infect humans with a new disease and
invasive species may serve as a
secondary parasite host for a human for
a human parasite and it&#39;s some of them
they can produce toxins which poison
marine food there are also many examples
of economic losses caused by biological
invasions and this is at this picture
you can see example from Ireland this
sea squirt the I didn&#39;t know Vic&#39;s
column from dense falling on the hull of
the boat and this species is also known
to cause serious problems to aquaculture
because it&#39;s overgrowth cultured mussels
until now in spite of several decades of
dedicated research it is impossible to
predict the next biological invasions
and it consequences in sixties Edward
Lorenz a meteorologist mathematician and
the pioneer of house theory he produced
several few formulas which all outlive
quite good accuracy to predict to
predict atmospheric circulation and to
predict they were for one or two years
in beforehand the state of the virus
systems can be estimated by a relatively
small number of easily measured
parameters such as air temperature
speed of veins and direction for Vince
community but when we are talking about
biological invasions we are talking
about an order of magnitude higher
number of parameters which should be
taken into account physical chemical
biological even social economical so
prediction of biological invasions and
the risk they pose remains as a great
challenge to science so this is why a
precautionary approach is is recommended
precautionary approach means prevention
of any new specious arrival the United
Nations International Maritime
Organization designed the ballast water
management convention which just entered
into force few weeks ago and ballast
water may be managed over exchanging the
water at high sea or using the ballast
water sterilization systems installed on
ships in this convention is intended to
prevent minimize and ultimately
eliminate risks or associated with
harmful organism transferred in ballast
water
well precaution approach may help avoid
the risk but when talking about in the
invasive species they should avoid
militaristic lexicons many times the
mass media in different languages
presents invaded species as our enemies
towards which we have to show zero
tolerance insect well just read this
these species don&#39;t belong here they are
plugging the landscape if untold
economic and biodiversity INBOX we need
to eradicate them whenever possible this
is war
such metaphors may have drawn attention
to invasive species in the short term
but ultimately of course they are
inadequate provoking misleading
perception of of the invasive species as
a phenomenon a negative social resonance
like a casino phobia so
we must be more careful as they are not
our enemies and in any case they cannot
be in this war because it was it the
devil once which transferred them from
one continent to an hour so yeah the
press needs to sell their newspapers of
course but scientists need to state the
reality and do not reinforce militarism
and lose scientific credibility but what
should we do if such species is already
there and how can we get rid of it in
most cases it is impossible to eliminate
they cannot poison the coastal ecosystem
of blow it up so let&#39;s consider this
invader from the castle from the Black
Sea the round will be you know near
globules villainous Domus it was
introduced most probably the ballast
water first appearing in the Baltic Sea
in the in a gulf of dynasty in Poland
and then spread to all countries around
the Baltic Sea also to listen eeeh
and now this is the most numerous most
abundant species in our waters it
because of these species now the number
of local
bottom-dwelling fishes declined very
considerably and not only red you can
see here at the upper video we can see
what how the bottom looked like several
years ago before invader came to our
area you can see what all borders are
densely covered by blue mussels which
are filtering water cleaning it and are
forming actually a very powerful natural
bio filter after invasion now then the
when DC hand with thousands of
Rowen go beyond the bottom what you can
see below this is it looks like the boat
is the clean by somebody because wrong
could be ate all the other muscles so
can we do something about that well
probably can try to control its
abundance and this was done very
successfully by local municipality in in
palanga which they arranged round goby
festival in palanga outside of the
normal tourist season they managed to
attract thousands of people hundreds of
them there
enthusiastically catching invader the
invader trying to win the competition
for the biggest catch and the catch was
measured not by individual fishes and
not even by 8 it was measured in in
buckets so and well the yield was used
to produce there is delicious products
such as this smoked fish on the Left why
not after all in the in the Ukraine
there are it originally came from this
goby was avoided in a monument as a
great winner
so the message is what an introduced
alien species can be sometimes useful or
at least can be used sometimes still it
is necessary to refrain from an
uncontrolled transfer of organisms by
taking preventive preventive measures to
avoid biological invasions until now we
are not able to predict the outcome of
such introductions and this is a big
challenge to science new methods are
needed such as machine learning to
analyze the emerging big data about
specious movements and their
consequences our decisions on the
removal and control of invasive species
what already exists
should be based on pragmatic
cost-benefit assessments we should think
beyond the limits and don&#39;t dodge judge
specious just on their origin thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
