
big cities and engulfing mobs sounds
scary as that&#39;s if not belonging to that
equation and you&#39;ve got a horror story
but in front of you
however in the past year I&#39;ve moved away
from hiding behind my mother skirts at
the cacophony of Kolkata till now
thinking of the sounds as music toot
even tears as I began to reading
translations offical literature I did is
nuts a familiarity with my city that my
yearly trips did not do justice to now
every loud Street had the footprints of
historical figures imprinted on them and
every connected team the tales of
maidens for a different time the point
that I tried to make with this is that
familiarity was the key that helped me
unite with my city
unlike the appearance and many others
who consider the Harbour Bridge to be
home I caught a fit as a piece of metal
on a bit on a dirty sluggish River the
seduction of a polis vote for me candid
learning that Putin is created as three
small villages and not active returning
home with joy at attention pride pride
that such a thriving city would accept
me as one of its own and try that I do
talk to a cut on my home however there
is still a small difference that creates
a gap between the Kolkata that I read
about and the Kolkata that I see in
life and it exists in its name today I
want to talk to you about the
differences between the names Kolkata
and Calcutta and the consequent
importance of renaming and reclaiming to
help guide your imagination as I talk to
you as I talk you through what these two
words mean to me I wanted to show you a
picture that I took this past hour
turn to my gravity feed the metropolitan
building an Esplanade which used to be
an upmarket department store - your
garage the architecture of this building
exemplifies British grandeur in the
foreground you have a man carrying pails
of water in Bengali we call him a party
he gave he dons his bread by tearing
water from the tube wells to flats
this is a dichotomy that exists in my
city
rags and riches hoppers and princes the
past and the present now I&#39;ve heard
people say that Cantus as a city like
Calcutta is an emotional and one
wouldn&#39;t they
but the term Chaotica is related to
sparkling lights at the nightlife of
Park Street where&#39;s quantity books
images of slums and farm animals and
streets and traffic jams however the
reason that I reject this color view of
the settlement
for me the 10 targets are carries its
own colonial baggage the etymology of
the word Calcutta is debatable but most
arguments say that capital is the
English pronunciation of the word
Kolkata the name derives from a name
derived from one of the three small
villages that created the city up until
2003 and Englishmen job Charnock this
credited with founding the city however
when the British arrived be established
near an area in what we refer to as
section Kolkata today they created their
little bubble at high ground but with 30
palaces and still began referring to the
city as the city of palaces but the
black towns that were littered right
outside pretty white towns were riddled
with diseases and poverty that
contradicted the very nature of the
title city of palaces however the
British so we should remain to simply
overlook them even as late as the 1930s
the clubs in the city catered
exclusively to the ruling whites yet
this repression of the Bengalis during
the Raj is something that we easily
ignored because at the end of the day we
were the quickest to adopt a master&#39;s
mannerisms and do your bidding as Lara
caller stated English was taught to be
idiots to form a class of people that
were 18 body colour but English in
tastes in opinion in moral and intellect
in essence that is what we became I am
an example
and slice into you using English as a
marker of literacy and speaking in an
accent that resembles the British this
ideology of progress in education became
so attractive that had learned a line
between colonialism and nationalism with
nationalists such as living charter path
not feeling at home a the modern
westernized Chaotica
now this is not to say that the British
left the city in tatters have pasta
coated through the three small villages
to the booming metropolis it is today
however it is important to remember that
this mud isolation was completely
British self-interest and the locals are
not allowed to respond in the modern
areas that took much later into the
watch and although time eat it this is
what capital means to me yes my
associate the name - pretty light that
the nightlife of Park Street but if the
British only related to pestilence in
poverty the question I or by this
mockery of my city and Colin Colin -
Gnomeo title and emotion when the only
emotion isn&#39;t sight to me is anger laced
with shame and this brings me to the
second part of my speech the name
Kolkata no data refers to the city as
yesterday and although I did not have
the tangible grandeur it had during the
merge after all exploiting the city
Diddley was a few resources to make to
us good as the soul is yet to be
tarnished
to me the word coders are signifies
we burped and reclamation as a past one
of the British were busy creating their
own city of palaces Godzilla was
creating its own city of joy
God does about that was characterized by
a number of markets or bazaars and a
bustle of a trade with this increasing
population did come an increase in
disease but it also led to a hodgepodge
of different cultures and traditions
this is the even today with the number
of Hindu temples jen temples and mosques
that is counted throughout the city the
communal living and your reality of the
population is palpable even today where
else will you find every other person on
the street willing to sit down and have
a heated discussion relieve you about
football and politics over some chai and
biscuit now Kipling aptly put it only in
this city can poverty and primed live
side by side the practice perhaps
chargeable to my speech but let me see
you use these figures that paint the
image of poverty Chu premier Gil stated
in The Times of India for the 2012 that
colonists were were poorer than the rest
the per capita income of the poor cooked
up as only 27 rupees a day that&#39;s 160
measures to put things in perspective
almost 14,000 people who reported
hopeless due to beautification projects
for the city the construction of the
maybe big man perhaps our final bow to
our colonial masters has pushed the
homeless further off the brain that
prioritizing beautification over villas
issue until only five years ago I had to
be careful walking around
cannot because not looking down may have
much falling into one of the open sewers
that line the street yet as she only
drug puts it this is a city that
survives and rejoices and celebrates
today the literacy rate of Kolkata that
87 percent the power cuts that haunted
the city city have dwindled the infant
mortality has fallen at 2013 saw the
below poverty line population go down by
15 percent and this is my Island Kolkata
- regeneration slowly but surely goal
that has reach its own Ranta at its own
pace capita and Kolkata represent to
study different stories and yet they
talk together to represent home for me
while I don&#39;t reject the word Takata
because I don&#39;t reject the city&#39;s master
nice pass for ebony Calcutta is the step
two words feeling familiarity at saving
the city by its own dollars it is wash
it away from the colonial mentality that
still enraptures us and to shit to us we
even tried it something that we can call
our own my visits ago thought I don&#39;t
just include corrective fancy balls and
gazing Australia Victorian architecture
they also include going to the houses of
the light cetera and acknowledging the
abject poverty of commercially the
dwellings of the immensely talented
craftsman of the city now my story of
reclamation is not the only one that
highlights importance of reclamation
black people to their teaching back the
N word and use it
and he said as I work for DNA solidarity
within their own community feminists
they&#39;re embracing the phrase like a girl
and I wanted to share the negative
connotations that come to being a girl
and in my own community
Indians are today using a language that
was once imposed over to progress
rapidly it would be absurd as we two
strike away the past but you forgot to
it that sounds like it even worse about
it
to me the word Kolkata encapsulated
centuries of history and the potential
for centuries to come
just as having a child brings him one
step closer to getting an identity
reclaiming the name of my city brings me
one step closer to home thank you
