
[Music]
[Applause]
can a spade teach something to an iPhone
most of us have used one of these within
the first 30 minutes upon waking up we
check email read news stories read the
social media updates and we love this
instant feedback and being up to date
with all the things that&#39;s happening my
profession as a designer means that when
I arrive at the office and brew my
morning coffee
I open yet another screen and depending
on the project I work that day it&#39;s
either another photoshoot a brainstorm
or a few more hours in front of a screen
again depending on the profession the
tool set might vary a little but the
truth is for most of us this is the set
that we use throughout the day but then
recently I discovered another set a set
that uses tools like a spade a watering
can and a few more others used for
gardening a very simple endeavor that I
actually hated for the most part of my
life I disliked traveling with my
parents to the countryside with all the
chores of weeding and watering or the
dirt and the mosquitoes but then
something happened and something changed
I remember my wife telling me with joy
in her eyes how she loved to pick fresh
asparagus straight from the garden bed
when she was living and studying abroad
and so I got curious and I wondered what
if I could grow my own asparagus as a
gift to my beloved wife every spring
there were only two problems number one
I didn&#39;t know how to grow anything
number two I had never heard about
anybody growing asparagus this far north
where in winters can easily reach minus
30 degrees Celsius and spring Frost&#39;s
can draw into early June but I gave it a
go and I got from this at first to this
a few years later when I could actually
give the gift to my wife and this
started my journey into gardening and it
proved to teach some of the most
valuable lessons that I have learned and
meet some great people and the stories I
want to share with you today come from
three quite old simple but kind-hearted
men that all had one thing in common
they allowed to take care of their
garden and it turns out a few old men
with a spade and dirt on their hands can
teach a thing or two to the smartphone
generation because the tactics routines
and habits of these three men proved to
be more valuable than hundreds of blog
posts and best-selling books that I have
read over the years and ever since I
remember my grandfather Gunners he
taught us kids to observe to pay
attention and notice things seemingly
too simple to look for in a way to
cultivate the habit of curiosity and you
can do gardening without learning to
observe and pay attention to the rhythms
of nature because you can force your
will to the nature but you can notice
the change in weather and then act
accordingly
curiosity is what led me to start a
garden it led me to plan the first
asparagus and then it led to ask the
next question what if besides the
conventional crops that most of the
gardener&#39;s plant in our region like
potatoes and apples what if we could
grow our own watermelons or what if we
could grow our own baby Kiwis or maybe
mulberries or even walnuts or even
quinoa
or Inca berries and it turns out that
you can grow all of these and even more
we tried it and we did it and even
though our watermelons first looked like
this eventually they got bigger but
maybe far more important than starting a
garden the habit of curiosity resonated
back to my professional life when I
tried my first asparagus I was around
thirty years old and it was shipped from
some faraway country but for my son it
was when he was 2 years old and it was
straight from our garden bed and for him
it will be something that you can easily
grow yourself and I was so excited to
find out about all these things that you
can grow here up north that I wanted to
find a way to pass on this joy so I
decided to design a little book a book
of ABCs where each letter is illustrated
with a vegetable herb or fruit or berry
that you can a grow yourself in our
climate and B you can eat it in a way to
plant the seed of curiosity into our
little children teach them to explore
and to taste things that are commonly
considered exotic or even an edible like
it was with the sumac tree a very
beautiful tree that grows almost in
every second yard in our country but for
the most part is considered poisonous
and when I finished the book I sent it
out to a few gardening experts in
academics and asked for their review and
they came back with the reply that we
had the book looks beautiful and
everything is great but you should take
out the sumac tree because it&#39;s
poisonous but I get curious and I
started to look around and wonder the is
it really so and I got some confirmation
that it is actually edible and I tried
it and I survived and then I gave it to
my two-year-old son and he survived and
he actually loved it and then I wrote
back to the academics and explained them
the situation and told what happened and
they
looked into it and came back with a
positive reply and said yes of indeed it
is actually edible sorry and this little
bit of curiosity saved the poor summitry
but as important as curiosity is it only
gets you started you need more than that
and when I wanted to plant my first
walnut tree I went to the man named goon
Wallace and he&#39;s the man responsible for
breeding walnut trees into our northern
climate and the first year when he
started he planted 700 trees and over
the first winter four of them survived
you would say it&#39;s a sure sign to drop
the case try something new it&#39;s okay but
instead he planted a few more hundred
trees next winter and then again a few
more hundred trees an hour and after a
few decades he has walnut orchard that
produces superior fruit and this simple
lesson reminds me that persistence that
strength or talent is the most valuable
resource that shape the quality of our
lives and it reminds me to keep going
when times get tough and not to give up
and then I ask gone mouths
how long will it take for my walnut to
grow into a tree and produce fruit and
he replied twelve years and it shocked
me because I realized that I rarely if
ever think about my life and projects
this far ahead to wait for 12 years to
see the fruit of my labor and you see I
planted the walnut trees with my other
grandfather ill Mars a man who is 88
years old and still travels to his piece
of land to tend his garden and still
climbs trees but maybe even more
important than climbing trees at this
age which still is their mark will act
is that we spent two days side-by-side
planting walnut trees or at least one of
us was working well the other one was
taking selfies and if you do the math
and he&#39;s 88 years old and the trees take
12 years to mature then it will set him
at a hundred years of age
when that happens which means that he
might not be around when the trees
produced the first fruit in a world
that&#39;s dominated by instant
gratification a trait that is willing to
wait this far had to see the fruit or
even do things that will pay fruit only
after you have passed your time on earth
it&#39;s such a rare and valuable trait when
I finish my day at the office and close
all the screens and for a few hours
trade my smartphone for a spade I am
reminded of these three men their way of
life and their simple lessons to keep
the fire of curiosity alive and to stick
to my ideas and projects with the
persistence of a simple walnut breeder
and to think and act so that those who
come after us may find joy in the fruit
of our labor thank you very much
[Applause]
