
[Music]
you are not just a simple small body in
this universe in fact you are the
gigantic universe in this body you might
have heard somewhere that you know you
are just a small human being living in
one society within one city and a place
called Earth Earth is so small compared
to all the planets and the solar system
and then out of solar system there are
neighboring stars and then interstellar
then there are the galaxies and black
holes and whatnot in compared to all
these things where we stand they say
very small but what I am trying to talk
today is that you are the gigantic
universe in this body to explain you
this point that what you are what do I
mean by that you are a universe within
yourself and how you can car your life
let&#39;s talk about most important thing at
this movement is called depression would
you believe that 5% of world&#39;s
population is living under depression
around 325 million people are under some
kind of mental disorders
I see many successful people here in the
audience right and one out of four is
suffering from depression can you think
about any of your three good friends you
thought about them are they okay you
think so your three friends are okay
then you are the fourth you are the one
probably suffering from the depression
of the mental disorder what I&#39;m trying
to explain point here is that the mental
conditions are so worst that 800,000
people are doing suicide every year
across the globe in my society which is
beautiful Society where I live in Mumbai
we play volleyball and we play lots of
activities and games and all one day
watchman calls me and says me sir
last night a doctor jumped from the 14th
floor and gave his life a doctor so I&#39;m
not talking about a student or worker
class person or personal suffering with
economic condition a doctor is that the
reason why our parents are giving
education to us is that the reason why
our scientists our Yogi&#39;s our expert
ancestors gave us the life and the
knowledge and enriched us so that we&#39;ll
live a stressful life absolutely not but
we are living a trouble full life
whether its relationship you call it
whether you call it financial problems
there are so many words here which we
are going to describe what kind of
mental disease or problem you could have
which you might not know which you might
not have any idea given with these all
mental conditions the world seems little
dark but I&#39;m going to throw some points
that if we just live our life just car
our life we can live a successful very
happy and meaningful life
because I had traveled to 65 countries
and I had traveled to the tribal areas I
have stayed with these African tribes
and I have traveled to the most
sophisticated most advanced country in
the world and I learned one thing from
all those that no matter what job you do
no matter what activity you do if you
are not living the life which is your
life you will end up going in problems
and difficulties and this is what I&#39;m
going to explain to you in general in
general the world is becoming better we
have better resources the education is
better the more people are becoming
millionaire in general you see we have
food we have you know good quality water
in general looks like everything is
growing but is this our growth
everything around us which is growing is
this our growth let me explain you one
simple story when my son Naaman he
turned a beer I thought I will buy a
plant for him
so that you know when I watch my son
growing which I love it my two kids I
love them and I love watching them
growing i I thought that my son will
also love this plant growing I went to a
nursery center and I said there give me
a big plant but give me a small pot I
don&#39;t have much of space you know let it
grow and then my son says that buy a big
pot and I said no no I just need a big
plant but not necessary big pot and my
son says if the roots cannot grow how
plant will grow and I was speechless for
a few minute and then thought so true
that if roots cannot grow how plant will
grow until the day I was thinking that
my growth is not inside is externally if
I buy the car if I buy a house if I buy
something new its my growth right the
more money I have more accumulation I do
it is my growth but is that my growth is
not is the accumulation which I am
making is not my growth my growth can
only happen organically when I am able
to transform if you look at this
beautiful picture what nature&#39;s
suggesters everything is grown inside
out but our growth we think that our
growth is with the external thing which
is so untrue because no matter how many
things I&#39;m accumulating from the
external perspective I am still not
growing I am still suffering from those
mental disorders I am still struggling
to find my life so how do we come out of
it
this picture I took in Bali woodcarving
you must have seen at many places when
you go for the stone sculpture or wood
carving everyone every artist you ask
them they say you the beauty is inside I
am just removing the unwanted part you
know most of the time you must have
heard this term also but question is why
do we have to call the beauty why beauty
is not there as it is the
mind here is that what you accumulate
even what the knowledge you are
accumulating the experience the points
the money everything which you&#39;re
accumulating at this moment is not going
to be useful as it is you need to carve
it out because 8.7 million species are
there 8.7 million species but they all
live in harmony with the nature but
human being is only species only species
which believe in collecting things
accumulating things they believe in the
growth is only if I could accumulate
something rest all other 8.7 million
species they believe in living in the
harmony with the nature isn&#39;t it today
if you see that we know everything about
the universe as I mentioned to you from
interstellar stew galaxies and all and
we are going far and far but there is a
universe inside me we have very limited
knowledge about it
we have very limited study about it if
you look at the world there is enough
light and electricity to light up the
world but there is not enough time you
have to lighten up yourself many people
is still under negativity and to come
out of that negativity all you need is
just to spend time with yourself what is
religion politics today doing patriotism
and country are doing all of them are
trying to dominate and trying to prove a
point that they are bigger than others
and in that portion we are trying to
dominate other whether it is a country
your religion or any other point of view
we see that that everyone is trying to
dominate but we are not spending enough
time to deal with our negativity we need
to do something and how to do this thing
thing that I have come up with seven
simple points and I&#39;m coming up with my
book called car your life and in that I
am putting these suggestions so I&#39;m just
coming up with seven simple suggestion
that how can you live happy successful
and meaningful life again I will say the
three words which I said happy
successful and
meaningful life with just simple seven
suggestion point number one know
yourself you are more than just DNA
cells muscles body you are the source of
everything you have the power inside you
to seek the knowledge whatever ancestor
did whatever yoga did they set down
close their eyes meditated and the
knowledge came to them in many ways a
little bit of information is good enough
observation is one of the most important
thing if you just observe three if you
observe you know a small and and if you
observe without any attachment you will
learn great deal of things and sometime
just few words are good enough for you
as like for Mahatma Gandhi like ahimsa
and truth these were the just two words
to live his entire life we can live
wonderful life with just simple
philosophy second point you are
beautiful believe in it you might have
flaws you might have difficulties but
you are beautiful you are ultimately
beautiful and you should have a self
respect for you if you do not have a
self respect for yourself then other
people will not have a respect for you
this is the one of the most important
condition for other people the way they
treat because you set a standard for
yourself that how others should treat
you you are ultimate beauty and believe
in your beauty and your to work around
it this is something new which you might
have heard is called energy drainer you
start your day in the morning and you
finish in the evening you do lots of
work you juggle around you will not
serve try and finish things but at the
end at the evening when you finish your
day you feel that oh nothing I achieved
today why this happened because either
some person some process something is
draining your energy you are not aware
about it maybe you are playing maybe
you&#39;re watching video maybe you&#39;re doing
something which is just draining energy
and let me explain you this point call
we are living in push not if you
world look at the previous generation
our ancestors and yogi
they went to search the information now
almost every information is pushed to us
how much time you really spend to search
anything now you check your what stuff
you check your Facebook you check
whatever comes everything comes and
every other second you see the message
coming to you email coming to you
information coming to you whatever the
entire world want to say to you you are
listening that reading that watching
that but how many times you actually go
and seek the information which our
previous generation of our yogi did it
because in that seeking they had a sense
of accomplishment sense of happiness
when they were doing this thing it&#39;s not
happening right now and that&#39;s why we do
not have a sense of accomplishment we
don&#39;t have a sense of knowledge and
happiness when we are getting some
information every advertisement they are
trying to sell some emotions to you you
know be beautiful have a big house have
a colorful house have a big car have a
comfortable car these are the emotional
triggers and you are the part of their
strategy and they are emotionally
arousing you to take action and we are
doing that everything is just
emotionally played with earth so now is
the time that you take a self-control
today when you go back at home do not
look at the information which comes to
you go and search the information which
you actually require they stop those
notifications some of them are good but
not all do not spend that amount of
information just coming to you which is
pushing to you but go and search for the
information which is going to help your
life which is going to help you become
better person
the self-confidence is one of the most
important requested to do anything
nothing significant could ever be
achieved without believing in yourself
that you are capable to do it and if you
do not have a belief that you can do it
there are very simple strategies you can
do to deal with it
just prepare act on it and raise your
bar these simple strategies are so
beautiful strategies to do something
amazing for you
another point is what we just heard and
recently happen in Punjab and I just
recently wrote article also the time is
kind of over now to follow other people
you know you saw that those Baba&#39;s and
gurus playing with your emotion sometime
it&#39;s a time to start self mentoring I&#39;m
not saying that you should stop learning
from someone else you still need a
vision guidance and support but take
that as a nurturer as a nourishment when
you read a book next time don&#39;t read the
book to remember it just take the
nourishment from it if I ask you what
did you eat 10 days back would you
remember it what did you eat 25 days
back would you remember it no would not
remember it but that food was not wasted
right it did nourish your body it
nurture your body right similarly if you
are listening to this speech or other
speaker or if you are reading a book
take the nourishment from it do not
follow as it is because you have
personality your needs your life is
different than my life I might be able
to suggest you a few point don&#39;t take it
as it is let it run in your thought
process and try to run and see what best
you can do from it and self mentoring is
a way forward right now then harmonious
well-being that we need to start
thinking comprehensively from various
perspective not only from one
perspective and from all the perspective
and a harmonious life is way forward
and this is the last point of my
presentation that even if you be a
successful and even if you are able to
learn new thing if you don&#39;t do this
thing then your life is not going to
become meaningful which is contribute we
are here to contribute not necessarily
to just enjoy our own fruit and to
explain you this I have a very small
story which I love so much and I always
share this a story so this boy was on
the shores on the beach walking and he
saw thousands of starfish coming out of
the water and there were thousands of
starfish so this boy was picking one and
throwing back and doing one by one a
person walked from there and said that
boy what you&#39;re doing these are
thousands of starfish you will not be
able to throw all back in the water
you&#39;re wasting your time you will not be
able to make a difference that boy
generally picked one more starfish threw
back in water and said it made
difference to this one similarly do not
think that are you going to make the
contribution to the millions of people
or billions of people if you are able to
contribute to someone please do so
without contribution only in
accumulation we are not going to build
the world in which we want to live you
want to live in the world which so
selfish so difficult and right now the
recent resources the kind of world we
are living is more about double that you
know we are trying to oppose everything
we are trying to fight for everything
and we had to stop that and start
contributing so I suppose only by just
these seven point know yourself believe
that you are beautiful have a
self-discipline have a self-confidence
and harmonious well-being and last
contribute you can live an amazing life
with that I thank you very much
you
