
[Music]
[Music]
have you ever plain streets when you
were child do you remember that
experience with pleasure the first time
I went to slum what caught my attention
most was the quantity of children
playing streets at first the picture
remind me on my own childhood playing
the street with my brothers but after
some thought I realized that the result
of play outside were impart very
different for these kids can you imagine
a slamming - itís when I discussed 12
point 7 million people in the
metropolitan area the same area has
almost 1000 in formal statements format
by saloons shanty town and low resources
neighbourhoods houses are very small and
overpopulated so the only alternative
for children is to play outdoors they go
out and play with any kind of object and
people they find they are exposed to
drug dealers or to lost bullets that
came from worse between gangs and they
are also exposed to Paco Paco is a very
toxic drug similar to crack made out of
residues of cocaine so cooking is a rock
for wealthy people and Paco is for poor
because of it price people begin to take
Paco when they are adolescents and it
costs them at great body damage market
weight loss and by your reaction the
dependency is nearly immediate some of
them are regulated by churches and
organizations but even for those finding
a job is really difficult because they
lack studies or social capital and
because they belong for a model of a
structural poverty so they have social
stigma but let me tell you something
this is not how the story ends for them
admission Martelli chess club we always
have the tireless ambition of carrying
the game of chess to every corner
because we are convinced of the benefits
and opportunities that is compelled in
our institution there is a municipal
school offering free classes for all
ages yet we realized that there were no
kids for the lower resources
neighborhoods wife because their lives
happens inside the neighborhoods so here
we have our first learning free does not
mean inclusive a viable does not mean
accessible so how could we make this
opportunity accessible even for them
well we should go to the slums so the
action began we went to the
neighborhoods and we reach young people
who were recovered from putco we offered
them a special grant to take a course in
our institution which is a model school
as regards of teaching quality after a
two month course were the lay chess
pedagogy and after passing the final
exam they received a degree as chess
instructor
this degree is ratified by the
Secretariat of Education of the
municipality this is important and why
is this done important in this in their
lives well disagree enables them to
teach in any addictive institution of
our country so this empowers them
without making them dependent only on
our program so these young people go
back to their neighborhoods and to their
streets but now as chess instructors
coordinated by us they give open and
free classes in squares and Community
Day in a house at the end of the month
they collect their salary and year after
year they take on a new training
to improve their level of teaching these
young people work as a bridge between
neighborhoods and chest life because
they burn know the necessities and the
cost of their communities in chess a
single move can completely change the
opportunities of a player in the same
way with this activity in this single
move change take places this population
on the risk finds something new
something that was sophisticated or
distant to them so in first class they
learn how to move the pieces and the
basic and then they start playing and
playing and playing tactics and strategy
comes after and as a set of those which
are so in markets are very expensive for
vulnerable people we develop a chess set
which anyone could have access to this
paper CAPTCHAs is given to them in their
first class together were their
communities we gather plastic lids so
they can make their own first chess set
with no cost at all
and they can keep on playing even when
the class has finished and in this way
disappears in every day landscape being
a meeting point with knowledge our
people met us in community dining halls
where they go to satisfy a basic need
filling their stomach but when they live
they had feel in their stomach feeding
their ideas and develop new skill which
are this new skills were there too many
but some of them they increased their
memory and creativity they develop the
capacity of anticipation they generate
consciousness of the relationship
between action and consequences but in
this context the power of chess is this
one of the most inclusive sport of
says it can be played by boys or girls
young people old people blind people
poor people rich people between equals
that&#39;s why the name of our program is
chess in neighborhoods for inclusion ABI
for their initials in Spanish this is it
they aim of all of this to equalize
people in at least one aspect of their
lives the object is not to train a
national champion but to give them a
tool that helps them make birth choices
along their lives that gives them the
possibility of anticipating their
problems and to find the multiple
possible solution porta well this was
what we offered and one will look it for
but along the way what we found was
inspected because there were benefits
for all first the new structure they
began a worthy and decent career they
become examples of self-improvement for
their communities and they were also
invited to play a professional chess
lead with the chest great masters
playing between equals second the
children they developed curiosity and
they were so in so enthusiastic so we
began to organize in turn a burr hood
tournaments and now once a month they
participate in SQL in a Scholastic
leagues again play in between equals
with other children whose lives in a
totally different reality and sometimes
also winning as you can see and third
for our institution it was a great
learning we could see our educative
community parents teachers students
going voluntary to neighborhood were
they
before this experience would be afraid
of entering I remember the first year of
this project we began the call from a
church in the slum one 1140 Amano situs
and the first training was given just
for for new instructors but when ideas
are put it into action and are shown
doors begin to open this is our fifth
year running this project now we have
the support of the municipality and
different NGOs so we have more than 100
instructors with their diplomas 500
students in 25 different neighborhoods
from federal capital some Argentinean
province and even we cannot believe it
we are also present in chibuto Muslim
region so there you have Vicente lópez
Iman Osiris and Chivato Atmos ambach so
how did it happen
well our story share in it when we like
what we do and when we get involved in a
project we can see opportunities
everywhere and in this way is easy to
find people with similar interested or
related values together with a community
centre work we already teach in one
osiris within just sets books and all
the necessary material today more than
40 students for the rural schools from
the zone receive classes from Claudia
and someone I don&#39;t know them but I know
they are there and although in a very
distant place we are part of the same
team and of the same dream put it into
action
well this is only a model
an idea which only could have been and
Autopia but it was fulfilling and became
real step by step in Argentina
it also worked in Mozambique so why not
in your countries or why not with
something else we are now about doing
the same with robotics and coding as
well there is an Italian proverb that
says at the end of the game the king and
the pound go into the same boolean box
this means that death equalized the
pores and the riches but your life day
after day life does not equalize them so
it depends on us the rest of the pieces
on the chessboard to protect and to
support them because we are part of the
same team that is a society so I invite
you to honor the fortune that you had on
learning something that transformed you
by teaching that knowledge to someone
who would have the chance to learn it
any other way
muchas gracias
[Applause]
[Music]
