
[Music]
[Music]
what if what if you could increase the
number of entrepreneurs in a community
by 10 times no in a university if you
have say last year if you have five
companies that came out of this
university what if we can make it 50
would you would you attract more
admissions would more employers come and
look for people with more skills here
what about if we did that enough in a
community that means in a village or
enough in a larger community or a nation
if you could increase the number of
entrepreneurs by 10 times you would
create maybe 10 times more jobs maybe
you&#39;d solve 10 times the number of
problems or maybe even create 10 times a
number of wealth amount of wealth now
what about peace the one of the primary
causes of the Arab Spring in 2010 was
unemployment now we could talk about
creating entrepreneurs but how do we do
this
Iran can entrepreneurs be made or are
they certain special snowflakes that are
born that way I believe that
entrepreneurs can be made and that had
has been my research at MIT and my
life&#39;s work for the last 10 15 years if
you look at in characters and several
programs that government puts out or any
other kind of community puts out what
you see is they&#39;re all looking for
aspiring entrepreneurs then may help
them create companies but that&#39;s only a
- very very small percentage of the
larger population my focus is can we
focus on the larger population that
means if you can create entrepreneurs
from the larger population you could
actually change it by 10 50 times and I
find there are three major factors that
change
any ordinary person to start to think
that they could be a become an
entrepreneurial one is internal internal
means the self-efficacy or the
confidence that you have that you can do
something on your own and that only
comes from doing things failing several
times and you know learning from that
and expanding your field of competence
and that is how you build your
confidence and self-efficacy is the
self-confidence to take on an unknown
challenge and that ability you get only
through failing multiple times and
filling out from there second factor is
the external factor which is the
ecosystem that that is around you that
means matters that are around you maybe
the society the cultural pressures or
even a place where you can actually go
do things and that external factors
obviously will accelerate the kind of
change but I feel the most important one
is the interventional factor that means
how early can you get involved in a
kid&#39;s life and start to change their
thinking a little bit so over time they
start to you know over the next 20 years
they would be in a very very different
place I grew up in a little village in
India when I was 10 years old I there
was a radio repairman in my village and
he showed me how to open up a radio and
see the speaker electronics I always
thought there were little people living
in radios and who can sing and play
music inside he showed me all these
things and he even taught me how to
solder and I was 10 or 11 years old
something that I believe that was one of
the biggest influence I had in my life
where I went on to study electronics
engineering and became a product
designer entrepreneur and different
things in my life so I believe early
intervention would be the would give you
the largest return in life so when you
look at
how do you create this entrepreneur I
looked at my own life and see you know
as I said growing up in a
lower-middle-class family in a small
village in India what kind of changes
did I go through to reach this place
where I am no I&#39;ve done multiple
companies in the US and created and
designed a lot of products in my life
but I think there is a certain pattern
and I took this pattern and I tested it
out on other students to see if if I
tested in favor put them through the
same process would you change your
attitudes and the first stage is a
four-step process the first stage is
what I call a zero zero just means an
uninitiated student if you go to any
university you would see students who
are trying to graduate and find a job
universities have taken them through all
kinds of book knowledge but very little
practical hands-on experience now how do
you take these students and they&#39;re
primarily our job seekers they want to
go find a job and the first stop is to
make them into a maker a maker is
someone who can think of things and with
your hands make it you know when we were
kids we used to take cardboard boxes and
you know bottle caps and popsicle sticks
and stick them together and make things
of course they were in the greatest
products but we could actually think
about things and make them how many of
you have ever made at Linden in the last
one week made anything on the last one
month how many of you made anything we
have kind of lost that art over as we
grow up because you know we focus on
other things and the next stage is a
stage of an innovator where he the
person learns to solve problems when the
first maker hacks things and makes
things that are feasible an innovator
need to hack a problem and make things
that people really desire and the third
last stage is a stage of an entrepreneur
where he converts the problem into an
opportunity and Cree
something that is even viable now I will
go into the three stages the first stage
for maker if you want to make a
beautiful piece of furniture you need to
learn the craft of woodworking so craft
of woodworking may take several years
before you can actually create an
artistic piece of furniture you know if
I would have been a rock star if it
wasn&#39;t for I didn&#39;t spend enough time
learning the craft of playing a guitar
so I am where I am now so the craft is
what is stopping you from becoming
getting to the art now when you really
look at if you can accelerate this
learning of craft you could actually
learn will take them through much faster
cycle time of learning and failing so
when you look at digital fabrication
that actually enables you to think of an
idea design it on computer I can piece a
put a piece of wood and my CNC machine
would actually cut it for me I don&#39;t
need to know planing I don&#39;t need to
know all the woodworking craft or I can
print it out on a 3d printer so I could
accelerate this learning cycle and
that&#39;s what we use and I don&#39;t think of
ages or experiences or is a bar in any
way I have taught kids eight years old
through 65 years old the same process of
learning and doing things and the whole
purpose is to design something make
something and play with it don&#39;t worry
about solving any world problems so we
created this program called a 48 hour
maker fest where we teach them to id8
id8 is when you think sit around and
think about how to create something and
they bring ideas and you know teach how
do you think outside your little zone of
comfort and then they learn to cad it
the physical product they mechanically
they&#39;ll care it they learn electronics
their code within 48 hours by end of 48
hours they would have a working
prototype just starting from zero they
we can actually take them through that
so
what we are doing here is that these
kids are learning to design and make
electronic parts and stuff and and then
they need to create some and this would
be made a little baby cradle automatic
baby paper so when you put something
together it is all done in two days and
that&#39;s a cockroach buster
anything that moves inside but of course
these are all the fun things to do you
know I&#39;m sure nobody&#39;s going out and
selling this cockroach posture anywhere
out in the market though but what you
see is that after at the end of the
second day these kids are on fire
they have suddenly realized certain
potential that they never realized they
had and you know things such as this
this is what they call a useless box
when you turn it on it will turn itself
off and you can get angry and it can
play with you you know but think of it
as an experience that you are creating
so the designer has to think about how
do I have create this design this
experience that the user want to see
from there figure out what kind of
physical products do I make from that
then they have to do the design the
mechanical parts design the electronics
inside write the code write the software
to realize the experience that they want
to get and these are the kids
fear I think they were from inti so how
young can you go so we did this on 6th
grade students which is about 11 years
old and they created this robot that
keeps the ball and the board posted
scores ago you know and at six years old
which is the funniest thing was this was
in Saigon we ran the program at the end
of the night these kids would not leave
the lab and the parents were all waiting
outside till 10 11 o&#39;clock at night
because they were so engrossed they
suddenly realized something they could
do and these are the ones you know so if
six great students can do it I believe
you know you don&#39;t need an engineering
degree to do any of these products the
next stage is a stage of innovator
innovative you need to go to a community
observe understand the kind of problems
and define what kind of need that you
can see that you can solve and from
there ID eight again solutions and we
use design thinking as a process to go
through this get to the end
develop empathy for the current customer
and from there define the need and
create solutions we normally take them
to places where they are not young youth
they are not comfortable going such as
you know this is enough rubber estate
somewhere and cattle farm or of this is
where they were making coconut fiber
ropes and these are my students who
actually go there and spend their time
and this was in a little tiny tribal
village we spent a day in the village
actually sleeping in their hearts to
understand what kind of problems they
face in life so then you could come back
and actually understand create the kind
of problem that we could solve this was
in a hospital for kids with cerebral
palsy you know unless we go live their
life you will never understand what the
problems are and from there we design
the kind of products that we do this is
one of the teams that they went to a
hospital and they found kids neonates
that is pre born they have a tendency to
get sleep apnea sleep apnea is some when
in adults when you suddenly you stop
breathing while you&#39;re sleeping and you
suddenly wake up out of breath but in
little babies they don&#39;t wake up they
just die and it&#39;s called sudden infant
death syndrome and these kids these
students suddenly decided that they want
to take this up as a problem and they
created a little boot that the baby
wears and it looks for blood oxygen
content so when the stopped breathing
the oxygen content goes down and we put
in vibrating motors to tickle the baby
so that the baby would wake up and start
breathing again and they have gone on to
make it into a little strapped that the
baby can wear it was really what happens
is that in a in a rural hospital they
give the baby to the mother and say go
home because we can&#39;t keep the baby in
the hospital forever okay this is pre
bound by maybe a month or few weeks but
there are several several cases where
the baby could lose its life at home and
in this case they went to school for a
home for blind girls and after staying
with them and talking to them they
realized that
one interesting problem is that they
cannot see they cannot feel of a
obstruction at eye level so they can
only feel what the cane can touch so
they said we normally walk into branches
and it hits her head and these kids came
back and said we need to create
something so they created something what
they called the torch light for the
blind basically it&#39;s a ultrasonic sensor
it can it will vibrate differently
depending on what kind of distances are
there in front of them so they can feel
that there is something coming up and
they could and they attach it to a cane
and it became a company they actually
started a company with it with the
product the last stage is a stage of an
entrepreneur now that you know you have
a problem which people really want
solved you have a solution that solves
it now can you understand how to create
how to monetize it can you create a
company that can create the product how
do you reach the customer how do you
pull together a team and of course an
entrepreneur looks at a problem as an
opportunity I&#39;ve been doing these kind
of programs all across the world and I
muster done for some 45 such workshops
and I believe one thing I learned from
there is that I&#39;ve taught students from
MIT very high-end technology schools two
rules rule engineering schools and one
observation I had is that if we can
define intelligence as the ability
ability for someone to understand a new
concept deep and fast I see zero
difference between the students at MIT
or students in a rural school zero
difference there&#39;s no difference in
intelligence
but the difference is in the exposure
that they have to do other things so
that means the more you know the easier
it gets to learn it&#39;s you know so if I
can give you a new concept you can
really interpolate and extrapolate from
from what you know so the as as a
teacher and as an institution our idea
is how do we give more exposing students
to you
and more things so starting with
building an ecosystem you know that is a
way to start this whole process where we
would build a small ecosystem within a
college and that would consist of
students who have been trained and now
we they want to do things and more
students get involved they do more
things they their other students see
they all want to get involved more we
also need to have mentors who can teach
and mentor these students and we need to
have a place that means you have a lab
where the people come in it&#39;s like a
watering hole where they can come and
hang around in new things do fail
actually I I want my students to fail
several several times because only then
you start losing the fear of failure and
only when you lose the fear of failure
you start reaching out for the edgy
things that you thought you could never
do so for that you need to actually
build the confidence so once you build
the ecosystem in these universities you
have all these students and then you can
reach out to the local schools so the
same set of students from universities
can actually go out to teaching in
schools to in last summer I taught in in
India where I had 48 students from MIT
and ASB and several other large schools
at the end of the whole program they
went out to 12 schools and taught
another 600 school students high school
students but this is the only way we can
actually exponentially scale up this
whole process of course when you have
entrepreneurs in the schools and
colleges they start having entrepreneurs
in the community once you have this you
have actually changed you have changed
the community where you can actually go
out and start solving real problems as I
said the primary factor we are trying to
change is a self-efficacy the confidence
that you can build that says that you
can go take on an unknown challenge
openly if you think you can do things
you like even have the courage to go do
these kind of things but our large goal
is to create employability amongst the
graduates so
can actually go out and hit the road
running they can actually do things and
also create auto-ship if you create
entrepreneurs I believe they will
transform the community they&#39;ll create
jobs they create wealth and you know
most probably they&#39;ll create peace thank
you
you
[Music]
