
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
there are hundred and thirty million
girls around the world who are not in
school today
several million of these girls live in
my home country Afghanistan like the
five-year-old Nabila you just saw as
some people debate whether access to
education is a basic human right and
others doubt there is anything we can do
to fix the education problem in my
country I would like to share my vision
for a solution but first I want you to
think about the obstacles you had to
overcome to attend school I want you to
think about those girls in rural
Afghanistan I want you to think about
Nabila what does it stand between her
and an education where does she even
start her fight for an opportunity to
learn her battle begins at home she has
to convince her male family members to
grant her permission to go to school if
she lives in an extended family
household that means seeking permission
from each of her grandfather father
brothers uncles and male cousins and if
she manages to get all that she&#39;s one of
the very few lucky girls in her
community when she begins her walk to
school she will be verbally harassed at
the very least constantly reminded by
strangers that she belongs inside those
thick walls that surround her house if
she&#39;s unlucky she will have acid thrown
on her face disfigurement as her reward
for simply wanting to go to school when
she gets to school she will hear that
her school principal and teachers have
received letters from the Taliban or
threatening to burn down her school for
presuming to educate girls as her school
administration deals with that threat
she finally settles into her morning
classes she&#39;s lucky if even one of her
teachers has basic knowledge let alone
mastery of the subject she&#39;s assigned to
teach for instance in Paktika province
in southern Afghanistan of the 3111
registered teachers only 16 are female
of the 16 female teachers only one has
graduated high school and five more have
completed primary education but that
young girl doesn&#39;t know all of this
she&#39;s happy to be learning something of
course being in school doesn&#39;t mean
she&#39;s safe during the course of the day
she could very well be poisoned perhaps
making it to the hospital in time to
survive this is another common way
opponents protest girls education let&#39;s
say she survives all of this and gets
home safely as soon as she walks into
the door she has to switch gear and get
to work this is the price of being
allowed to go to school she has to
compensate for her absence
she must be diligent and attentive in
cooking cleaning and looking after her
younger siblings to prove that she has
not gotten any bad ideas at school that
would cause her to act any differently a
small slip-up in her household duties
could cost her schooling and at the end
of the day if she has any time and
energy left if there is light if she can
find the
eight corner and a moment to herself she
might be able to get to her homework
now I must remind you that this is not
the experience of every single girl in
Afghanistan but rather a few examples of
the kinds of obstacles Afghan girls have
to overcome and in most cases the kinds
of challenges they have to face daily in
order to receive an education a recent
study by the Human Rights Watch shows
that two-thirds of Afghan girls do not
go to school that is two thirds of girls
in my home country now picture the same
young girl in a boarding school
environment can you imagine the
possibilities
suddenly most of the daily barriers she
has faced are removed she has time to
dedicate to her education and her
development as an individual her hours
are freed up to focus on her schooling
and thanks to the internet she has
access to teachers from all over the
world she lives in an environment that
is designed to enable her to reach her
full potential and increase her sense of
confidence
she has shifted from living with the
reality that her brother&#39;s education is
more important than hers to believing
that her education and her future are
equally vital she can move from
believing the common narrative that her
reason for being is to raise a family to
believing and knowing that she has the
ability to have an impact in her nation
and to make a difference to
understanding that she has important
things to do and that she matters in
looking at the boarding school model
from the perspective of a young
African girl it becomes evident that the
boarding school model is an ideal
solution to the obstacles she faces
daily implementing this model could mean
fueling sustainable development for all
of Afghanistan this is why in 2008 I
co-founded the first and only boarding
school for girls in Afghanistan Sola
school of leadership Afghanistan Sola is
dedicated to promoting to giving Afghan
girls access to rigorous education that
promotes critical thinking a sense of
purpose and respect for self and others
bringing this model of Education to of
to people in Afghanistan has been
difficult the idea of a young girl
living away is counter to tradition but
I am encouraged by the brave families
who believe in their daughters and make
it possible it is so inspiring to watch
the fathers grandfathers and brothers of
my students who not only realize the
potential in their young woman but also
advocate for other girls in their family
networks to attend my school today Solar
student Sola draws students from all
across Afghanistan representing all
ethnic groups and religious sects most
of our students come from rural
Afghanistan where access to quality
education is rare in a country like
Afghanistan that has been torn apart by
decades of conflict SOLAS model is
unique in that it addresses the
country&#39;s both educational and national
concerns in Afghanistan ethnic and
linguistic differences have prevented us
from developing a truly unified national
identity and Sola is at the forefront of
addressing the
an inclusive educational environment is
at the heart of our mission our
curriculum and a student life program
are designed to promote acceptance and
respect for all in the next five years
we aim to expand our model to span
grades six to twelve and houses students
from all 34 provinces in the country
though risky my experience over the last
decade has convinced me that it is
achievable at Sola that young girl from
practica province learns that
collaboration friendship and personal
growth do not recognize ethnic
linguistic and religious bounds and that
she and her schoolmates share a common
love for learning and together will
become responsible leaders of
Afghanistan u.s. President Abraham
Lincoln theorized that the philosophy of
the school in one generation will be the
philosophy of the government in the next
my hope is that SOLAS inclusive culture
and philosophy will ultimately lead to
an accepting empathetic stable and
peaceful Afghanistan and Ivana son where
every single girl like Nabila is able to
play and learn thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
