
you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
thank you so much ladies and gentlemen
this instrument I just performed on is
called a glass harp it is such a unique
instrument that you will never find this
in any music shop in the entire world
I have personally handcrafted this
instrument with special wine glasses it
is not a ready to use instrument like a
guitar or a table but it at least takes
an hour to set it and tune it it is an
acoustic instrument designed to produce
musical notes like any musical
instruments but the difference is that
it only produces soothing musical notes
the best part about this instrument is
that it works without electricity or
battery power many people ask me what
made me go out and create sound out of
something so unique my passion for music
started at a young age of 8 when I
picked up my first instrument the
keyboard and I never looked back I even
found music in the most interesting ways
on my parents wedding anniversary
my mom had gifted my dad a guitar as
he&#39;s extremely fond of singing long
story short while he never took up to
play the instrument as he is a very busy
man I found my new love on their
anniversary music has always been the
highlight of what I did in life I soon
reached a very big and important stage
of my life my 10th bore examinations yes
I cleared it with 72% marks a cool 2%
more than my dad along with my passion
for music well all my friends aspired to
be chartered accountants lawyers doctors
engineers I knew I knew I had something
better the steel for me instead of
taking the conventional route I mustered
up my courage or speaking to my parents
well I must say I was extremely lucky
and blessed to have wonderful parents
who not only accepted my choice but also
guided me how to move ahead
discovering Glass Harp was very
incidental it started with me what she
can online video it was a man in Prague
captivating a group of people with the
most amazing sound I&#39;ve ever heard all
on the glasses alone
I thought his fingers did the magic this
captivated me like never before I wanted
to know more and as always my curiosity
took me to Google and YouTube where I
watched a few more videos I could find
on the topic i extremely wanted to
pursue this i went to my mom and with
some convincing
we bought my first set of wine glasses
with a rigid based on the glass hub and
with few glasses i sell-- taught myself
the art and like my all musical
endeavors this one - stole my heart now
now now
let me see if I can steal yours now
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
thank you my passion got the fuel it
needed and so did my capability on the
instrument I practice day in and day out
day in and day out perfected my fingers
on the glasses I pushed and pushed
myself to live and enjoy this passion of
mine and then it happened in 2015 I got
a call from India&#39;s largest talent
competition show it was a dream come
true millions of viewers watching on the
television screens I was the first class
of performer in India on the show some
of my idols who were the judges were
surprised and gave me the neat boost to
understand that I am doing what I should
be doing and I should enjoy doing it the
most the next biggest turning point in
my life was when I was invited on a
popular TV comedy show to perform for
the king of Bollywood my adrenaline was
pumping and it is still pumping and once
again I fulfilled an a dream of mine and
then he calls pursued across the country
they were people wanting a glass heart
performance
something what was so relatively unknown
was suddenly in the spotlight these
experiences of mind have taught me one
thing that no matter how hard difficult
illogical something can sound at the
beginning it can turn out to be
brilliant revolutionary trend-setting if
you if you only persist and focus on
making it happen whether it is music
engineering or anything in life if you
push yourself hard for something that
thing can become a reality
ladies and gentlemen what I want to say
here is live life knowing that you can
accomplish anything in life if you work
hard for it and make sure you enjoy what
you&#39;re doing always embrace your
uniqueness celebrate life friends I
think I have done a lot of talking now
so let me leave you with a peppy number
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
thank you thank you so much
