
[Applause]
is education achieving its purpose is
this a question you should be asking for
it is education that shapes your
children and your grandchildren and
provides them with the skill sets that
they need to solve our world&#39;s
ever-increasing problems without an
education system that fosters these
skill sets and your children I ask you
what future do they have as an educator
I have seen the divide between school
education and society and work
expectation increasingly grow as schools
have moved away from fostering
real-world skills and children and
further towards a results attainment
focus away from the key skills of
critical thinking creativity
collaboration communication and most
importantly character and citizenship
that foster courageous forward-thinking
adaptable problem solvers in many cases
these crucial skills have been replaced
by the mastery of traditional subjects
therefore the question needs to be asked
whose purpose is education serving those
of our community those of our parents
those of your children or simply those
of the education system itself if you
are a parent your goal as mine as an
educator is to see your children grow
learn gain employment and be successful
in life however one thing that is
becoming abundantly clear is that our
children your children are growing up
into a world into a future that is very
different from our own one full of fast
changing technologies that are creating
multiple and many personal challenges
for our young people for your young
people
what&#39;s even more abundantly clear is
that if our education systems don&#39;t find
a way to move away from traditional
approaches and adapt and change their
ways then this divide between school
education and society and workplace
expectation will continue to grow at its
deepest level though education needs to
be more than just about providing our
young children your young children with
the ability to adapt to technological
change and to find employment it needs
to be about also providing them with the
creative and critical thinking skills to
be able to change our world to be able
to solve our ever-increasing worldly
problems every day our generation
continues to overshoot over exploit and
overuse what limited resources we have
leaving behind a legacy of global
problems that are yet to be solved well
you may find yourself asking the
question what type of world are we
leaving our children your children the
question you really should be asking is
how are our education systems developing
our children developing the skills and
our children to be able to solve these
problems not to just sustain their world
but the world of our 22nd century
citizens who were yet to be born did you
know though through innovation and
education right here in the tropics of
Far North Queensland that we are trying
to reshape and redesign education to
achieve its true purpose to engage our
young minds to meet the challenges of
the future an education system so
innovative that I&#39;ve rooted my family
and my life to be a part of an education
system that moves beyond the
contemporary and closer to the
conceptual but most importantly answers
yes to the question as to whether
education is achieving its purpose
to understand this innovation in
education let me take you on two
separate educational journeys through
the eyes of two different people Peter
and Sue I&#39;ll start with Peter Peters
journeys educational journey looks very
similar to ours many similar to many of
our children&#39;s today starting in primary
school moving into high school then
finally into tertiary learning however
Peters journey is fragmented it&#39;s
confusing it lacks continuity because as
Peter moves from one institution to the
next from primary into high to tertiary
he is faced with a different culture of
learning a different vision for his
learning a different purpose of his
education and most importantly different
goals of success each institution
working as a silo each institution
pushing their own purpose of Education
their own beliefs about what Peter needs
to succeed this leaves Peter with the
deficit because many of the institutions
are pushing the mastery of traditional
subjects as the goals of his success but
society expects more from Peter they
expect him to be a critical thinker to
be a creator to someone who can
communicate collaborate someone who can
change his will for the better
let me take you on a different
educational journey now through the eyes
of Sue Sue&#39;s journey on the surface
looks very much the same as Peters but
has one major point of difference
instead of attending three separate
educational institutions which have
three separate cultures of learning
visions of learning purposes of her
education and goals she attends three
separate institutions that share the
same vision the same culture of learning
the same vision and the same goals of
what makes her successful one strategic
seamless educational pathway that has
one singular goal and that is to engage
her mind to meet the challenges of the
future not just the
three of traditional subjects from an
early age sue is challenged to be a
critical thinker through the study of
philosophy to be a problem solver and an
acquirer through the study of
sustainability to be a creator and an
innovator through the study of
entrepreneurialism sue is challenged to
be more than just the master of
traditional subjects but to go on a path
that takes her from cradle to career and
then finally to a citizen who can change
her world for the better
Sue&#39;s educational journey is not a
mythical one but one that exists right
here in Far North Queensland in an
innovative thirdspace learning
collaboration that exists between
Trinity Beach State School Smithfield
State High School and James Cook
University what is known as a tropical
North Learning Academy the tropical
North Learning Academy is a seamless
strategic visionary educational pathway
that starts from infancy all the way to
adulthood it is about one vision and
that is to engage our young minds to
meet the challenges of the future to go
beyond the mastery of traditional
subjects but to develop the citizens
that we need to make our world a better
place so I ask you is education
achieving its purpose what I leave with
you is what is the tropical North
Learning Academy a shining light of a
model of purposeful real strategic
seamless education that we can trust to
engage our young minds to meet the
challenges of the future thank you
you
