
it&#39;s like walking into dr. Seuss&#39;s
stories and finding all of the care
you love since its opening the new dr.
Seuss Museum has been an instantaneous
success attracting national and
international tourists but what does a
wildly popular museum dedicated to a
children&#39;s author mean for the urban
revitalization of his hometown city of
Springfield Massachusetts we became a
part of his beautiful world thank you
for bringing us his passion and his art
this heartfelt message was written in a
comic book by a museum visitor on June
3rd 2017
during our grand opening for the amazing
world of dr. Seuss Museum the museum was
designed as a tribute to Springfield
born icon of children&#39;s literature
Theodor Seuss Geisel by consensus dr.
Seuss was the greatest American picture
book artist of the modern era every one
of the 44 children&#39;s books that he wrote
are still in print 26 years after his
death in 1991 dr. Seuss is arguably more
popular than ever an estimated 600
million dr. Seuss books have been
translated into 17 languages and sold in
more than 95 countries around the world
like the Grinch&#39;s heart on Christmas
morning dr. Seuss is claimed to popular
culture has grown at least three sizes
since his passing and shows no signs of
slowing down
as home to the dr. Seuss national
memorial sculpture garden the
Springfield museums have a unique
relationship with the dr. Seuss brand
Ted Geisel grew up in Springfield he was
inspired by what he saw when he was a
boy exploring the city and its many
landmarks Street scapes and geographical
features like the expanse of rolling
hills twisting pathways and fantastic
zoo at Forest Park his creative genius
was fostered by his life in Springfield
and it framed his outlook on the world
and thinking about developing a museum
dedicated to dr. Seuss our challenge was
how to create
experience that would immerse our
visitors in a Seussian world that would
make them feel like they had walked into
one of his books and are now entering
this most special universe of his
imagination the museums have a long
history of delivering experiences based
on cultural content first established in
1857 the Springfield museums are an
unparalleled visitor attraction located
in the heart of downtown Springfield
situated Smithsonian style around a
central green the interdisciplinary
complex includes two world-class Art
Museum&#39;s a Science Museum and a Museum
of Springfield history many of our
exhibitions are traditional displays of
artifacts and artwork that are explained
by labels or audio-visual interpretation
however more and more our visitors are
looking for a different level of
interactivity we live in a world where
people no longer want to just look at a
picture they want to be in the picture
and they want to celebrate that
participation through photographs of
themselves interacting with characters
or entering a three-dimensional
environment they do not want to be the
audience they want to be actors on the
stage engaging in and contributing to
the story when visitors entered the dr.
Seuss museum they find themselves awash
in the spectacular colors of dr. Seuss
characters and the scenes that he
invented for them the interactive
exhibits include digital technology
larger than life-size sculptures and
Florida ceiling murals visitors can sit
on the seven hump lump of gum and play
rhyming word games in the green eggs and
ham cave the museum also includes
three-dimensional replicas of the
monuments and places that inspired Ted
Geisel when he was growing up they can
walk through the facade of his childhood
home into a replica of his bedroom where
his parents used to let him draw on the
walls
using a large digital computer screen
they can make their own drawings just as
Ted did when he made his first attempts
to express his artistic vision like the
heroes and many dr. Seuss stories the
museum enables visitors to experience
the power of fantasy by allowing them to
leave the ordinary world behind so they
can have fun with his mischievous
characters and crazy constructions the
amazing world of dr. Seuss Museum also
provides our visitors with an intimate
glimpse into Ted geysell&#39;s private world
Ted&#39;s stepdaughters lark ray Diamond
Cates and Lea grey diamond donated their
collections of dr. Seuss memorabilia
artwork and furniture so that the
museums could install a recreation of
Ted&#39;s studio and sitting room on the
second floor of the museum the display
includes the drawing dust that he worked
on the chair that he sat in and the
rotary telephone that he used to conduct
business with his publishing house in
New York City his colored pencils are on
view as are as brushes oil paints and
other tools of the trade in the adjacent
sitting room visitors can see his couch
breakfast chair and bookshelves lined
with his favorite volumes the recreation
is so authentic that visitors have the
feeling that dr. Seuss just stepped out
of the room just as the first floor
enables children and families to
participate in the amazing world of his
imagination the second floor allows them
to enter his personal space and see him
through the eyes of the family who loved
him as a husband stepfather and grand
uncle there is this exciting new
attraction the Springfield museums have
been able to capitalize on the enormous
market appeal of dr. Seuss the new
museum has been extensively covered by
local regional national and
international media outlets including
the NBC Nightly News in the Today Show
since our opening on June 3rd our
attendance has tripled and the
visitation has included tourists from
around the
country and across the world but what
does a museum dedicated to a children&#39;s
author mean for his hometown of
Springfield a once bustling urban center
that faded over the decades during the
post-industrial era the answer is just
as the new dr. Seuss Museum is
reinvigorating the Springfield museums
Susa fiying the downtown district could
transform the urban landscape of
concrete buildings and asphalt into a
whimsical world filled with unexpected
sculptures and colorful environments
that invite discovery and promote
participation in other words a Seussian
world could be the perfect foil for
creative placemaking the burgeoning art
of developing space a sidewalk a hallway
a concrete pad under an highway overpass
into a place that is interesting and
inviting and a place that people want to
be creative placemaking acts as a
catalyst for urban theater that
enlivened streets and squares through
connecting new and regenerated places to
existing cultural assets it provides
authenticity and local ownership and
supports social and economic development
the city that ted knew during his
boyhood was visually arresting and
filled with eclectic Victorian
architecture that drew from cultures
from around the world here you could
find an office building topped with an
onion shaped dome or the sculpture of an
Egyptian sphinx resting on a winding
staircase the interesting Street scapes
of buildings and monuments were the
backdrop for a mixture of Commerce
business and leisure during the day the
streets were filled with pedestrians
trolleys trucks and automobiles
merchants traveled door-to-door selling
their wares from fanciful trucks decked
out to attract attention at night the
city&#39;s many theaters music halls and
dining establishments provided
entertainment for residents and visitors
after his classes Ted could walk from
its heist
to take music lessons in a building
across from City Hall or rushed to his
job working as an usher in the court
square theater the compact downtown
district was connected and walkable and
residents young and old could enact
their daily lives on an urban stage that
was vibrant filled with people from all
cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds
and ever-changing over time
Springfield like many industrial cities
has lost its connectivity a downtown
population of workers leaves the city at
night to drive home to their houses in
the suburbs the city&#39;s walkability has
been compromised by major thoroughfares
that are not pedestrian friendly however
a newly established cultural district is
revitalizing once deserted city squares
with pop-up galleries music events and
art making nondescript utility boxes
located along the streets have been
turned into painted artworks by a
diverse Corps of artists pedestrians are
invited to sit down to engage in
spontaneous music making at decorated
pianos placed in outdoor locations
picnic benches painted by artists and
high school students have been set up at
the base of office towers to invite
workers to sit outside during their
lunch hour as a way to animate sidewalks
in green spaces the arts based downtown
revitalization efforts are also being
fueled by the promise of jobs generated
by the major MGM resort development in
the city South End a large apartment
complex across from the Springfield
museums is undergoing extensive upgrades
so it can be transformed into safe and
affordable housing for resort employees
a pocket park started within this
apartment complex was originally
designed to connect the museum&#39;s with
the downtown district with a dramatic
staircase and handicapped accessible
elevator the park also featured public
art a waterfall in landscaping for many
years this park has been closed
and the landscaping has become neglected
and overgrown currently the museums are
working with the real-estate firm
managing the apartment complex and city
officials to open the park to restore
the connection between the museum&#39;s and
the city below plans include lighting
displays and projections and a Plaza for
performances festivals and outdoor
eateries justification of the park and
the entire cultural district could add
another level of activity by introducing
Seuss inspired public art and unexpected
spaces for example an interactive
catwalk inspired by dr. Seuss&#39;s most
famous tall haddock character could
guide visitors through the downtown to
discover seating areas and historic
sites instead of utilitarian street
lamps visitors would see brightly lit
Seussian trees public benches would take
the form of curvilinear Seussian
sculptures private enterprise and public
organizations could work together to
transform Springfield into an experience
destination that pays homage to a
beloved native son by drawing on the
power of imagination and channeling the
playful whimsy of dr. Seuss the city
could recapture the visual excitement
and densely populated streets and spaces
that inspired the creative genius of
Theodor Seuss Geisel
