
we live in absolutely unique times
historically absolutely unique times on
one side we are facing major threats
ecological sex threats political threats
social threats and indeed the problems
are mounting and there seems to be no
easy solution the threats are global
there never we have never explained
anything like that before but on the
other on the positive side we are having
absolutely amazing opportunities we have
technologies we are connected we have or
smartphones not only technologies but we
have amazing amount of knowledge we have
great science you look at matters sub
atomic particles we observe the whole
universe we have great theories we can
we can we have such technologies that
become in principle fight hunger and be
resolved hunger and without suffering we
don&#39;t do that but in principle it is
possible and it is indeed impossible to
brave to achieve a fair transparent and
engaging society and I believe such a
society will come or again as effect we
have no choice I believe that we are
approaching a point of singularity of a
global change either we don&#39;t make it
and we destroy our world which I hope I
believe is a small probability button
with a much higher probability over 94%
we will make it and we will achieve a
new world much better but which could be
which will be human society 21 and in
order to have to if arguments to this to
this vision to this belief I would like
to share with you the tools that we have
that I have been working of and I will
please ask for time here thank you
the the major tool is is a voting system
it is a way how to select people how to
sect leader I call it democracy 21 it is
a new algorithm which is which is based
on a multiple votes the the most print
principle the most important principle
is
that we have more votes and each person
can vote more opportunities you can also
stay state your second and third choices
etc let me show you an example or just a
brief layout how a choice looks like now
how voting system look like we have so
called first-past-the-post system that
is a system that&#39;s democratic yes every
person has one mole and the one who
receives the most of all wins it is
democratic but it is not very good it is
actually very big especially in today&#39;s
world where we are facing we see we are
imposed to society we are facing how
easy it is manipulating people and how
how much it pays off so if it is the
case that everybody can express only one
reference then it is not working simply
proportional voting system is is an
example that is in the Czech Republic or
other countries in Europe as well Poland
as well the system is also not very good
it promotes a lot of corruption and
indeed this is what I found after I
found it an anti-corruption Delvin in
2010 I realized that the file again
corruption being extremely important
it&#39;s actually not going to solve the
problems the root of the problem lies in
how people are selected how people are
chosen and who is in power now
so proportional system is not very good
you can he can see on the on the screen
it&#39;s like a version like a computer
version software 1.0 1.2 a small
improvement the next level is a big
improvement I denote it as 1.7 and it is
so-called STV signa transferable this is
in in my knowledge the only voting
system that is being applied in practice
in political boating it is for example
in Island it is a much better system but
it is relatively complicated it has
other weaknesses now 1.9 D 1.9 that&#39;s
not in practice that&#39;s a system that I
created in 2012 when I realized that
again the root of the problem society is
those people who get
to power those who are hungry for power
and those who promote corruption in the
end so in order to fight corruption they
need to change the choice of leaders and
the this system from the year 2012 is
based on a vote against so everybody can
vote not only for but also against so
that was the major upgrade but now this
is still not what I want to talk about
the new system is called democracy 21 or
also you can call it as 2.1 you make an
upgrade from those two windows or from
dusty unix so from version one to
version two and it did 21 is the system
that is based
I repeat on multiple volts it sounds
very simple but but the effects are
surprisingly good and I will just show
you now a very simple example why it is
so good and the example that I will show
is not artificial this similar situation
does appear in practice so imagine a
situation that we are 8 people of an
International Committee whose goal is to
find consensus and to reach some
agreement and we want to decide where do
we go for dinner
obviously we want to become friends so
we need to eat together so now how do we
decide we are Democrats so revolta and
now the voting system the first vault
exists is the maturity the biggest
number of world wins well you can see
that it is simple exact example two
people voted for the same restaurant in
this case McDonald&#39;s so everybody now
needs to go to McDonald&#39;s what do you
think about that well from Toto to
social utility point of view which is a
fear the concept but we can look at how
each person is satisfied so from the
total utility it is probably the worst
choice even though two people wanted
that but the problem is that each other
person wanted something else and they
were able they were allowed to say only
one preference so now comes democracy 21
democracy 20 month means that you have
more votes in this case there is one
winner one restaurant so we have at
least two votes and in
if we have to vote we can see that there
is another winner for example Greek
restaurant very simple but the effects
are like that additional additional
addition addition to democracy 21 is
democracy 21 plus a minus vote including
the - vote you can see that the result
with the - what might be different but
this is not important here it we are not
our our ambition is not to find the
absolutely best solution from the total
socially due to the point of view our
ambition is to find a solution which is
really good and this both these choices
agreed or Italian restaurant the
majority of people would be satisfied
now what would you expect well this is a
system that&#39;s great that has the
potential to change global politics
everywhere of course it will be very
difficult or it might be difficult to
implement it to persuade politicians to
do that why well there is a Czech
proverb that the carbs do not do not
evacuate their own bond okay so they
want to keep their pond so they
definitely are most politicians will not
want to make these changes but we are
very lucky we are very lucky because the
algorithm of voting is applicable and
very strong not only in politics but
also in non-political application and
this is what we have been doing for the
last few years and indeed great
application are in cities our goal is we
are people view we have the modern
technology
each of us has a smartphone we can
create an information interesting
between us and the council of a city we
don&#39;t need to do voting months left for
years we can engage in the decisions all
the time and this is our goal that we
want to we want to make people happier
in their communities and indeed a good
example how I would say shining example
in the Czech Republic is a city calls
each a name which is a project of the in
rachana which me I managed to reach Anna
now from the 11,000 voters already more
than 16 percent have registered it is
one time close one time issue you need
to come with your ID register and you
get your own code and then you can
always for the future just use your
smartphone and whenever there is
anything important you can do voting
there has been 10 major voting since May
2015 there&#39;s been a little more but do
10 more important one and we have great
results we have great reflect or
feedback from people a new a new project
for this year is a proposal for
surprised each other it is not only that
people vote from the offered
opportunities but it also motivate
people to be to engage to be active to
give their all projects so now over 30
almost 40 people have provided their
projects but they would like to change
to make in the in the city out of each
20 bond has been are registered chosen
and now the whole a city will be voting
on this project created by people
democracy 21 has not been only in the
Czech Republic so I&#39;d like to I&#39;m
stressing it out this is not as
something something local it is global
now I I can stress participation in New
York City which we have been doing class
here and this year it just finished last
Sunday now this year it has been much
better because because the City Council
was more open to our suggestions and
indeed the results are not official yet
but it seems that the number total
number of voters has more than doubled
from your last year electronically last
year we had only two thousand voters now
it was around thirty thousand so let me
now these are practical non-political
applications but there is something that
might be even more important for the
near future and what is important
important is playing important is having
fun important our games so I would like
to talk about one game which has been
which started
on the 21st of December 20 month 12 and
12 and the time symbolic diamond date so
a little bit over than three months ago
in the Czech Republic and the goal of
the game is to find a Czech president we
have checked presidential elections in
January but as you know as in many
countries the political situation is not
very good people are dissatisfied big
are discouraged they do not go voting
they think that they both even doesn&#39;t
count and we want to show them that
everybody can really show their opinion
and influence the reality by a fair and
fully transparent way so we started the
game called president 21 it is a dynamic
game but people can go and they can vote
and they can change their votes the
whole year and 66 day before the
presidential elections people announce
the winner and we are hoping that the
winner of the game assuming that we are
successful assuming that we reach a
really big number of people though then
the winner of the game will have an
argument he or she will be able to say I
am the consensual kind of date
I am the one who people really chose
this a fair transparent good voting
system with a manipulation and there is
a chance that the winner of the game
will indeed win the presidential
elections because he or she will net in
a natural way unite the country the
results of now are that today it will be
actually 5/7 we will reach 5/7 which is
70 7777 I believe he will reach today
the number of votes and and people are
voting people are choosing out of the
candidates which actually they can
nominate so you can go you can vote you
can nominate a candidate and from the
candidates that are nominated you can
choose three so everybody has three
votes for and bad vote against here
notice it&#39;s interesting there is one
later but there is three votes for
because the goal is to find even more
concern your candidates so I am hoping
that this game there are the reach way
over 500,000 we have reached this time
this pretty much only bazan any
marketing at this point only through the
internet and we are hoping to be
successful and if we are then then I&#39;m
hoping that President venta ban will
become a catalyst a catalyst or for
games
globally anywhere in the world that
anybody can start the game and indeed
let me now go back a little bit to the
amazing technologies that we have this
president 21 it is the situation that we
are running the game we are controlling
and everything so it is it&#39;s not decent
rise it is at one point and theoretic
ache somebody could blame me that I want
to manipulate or whatever that already
has happened and it will for sure happen
but fortunately we are in the modern
technology that we have this amazing -
decentralization we have blockchain and
what is blockchain well blockchain is
the possibility to run open source so
anybody can start a game anywhere and
the game will be absolutely transparent
and absolutely fair because it will be
multi it will be a decent rise there is
one assumption one assumptions for all
these possibilities is that everybody
has access to technology so we need to
make sure that we have this basic
freedom of having a free access to the
Internet
fortunately it is in principle this is
not still technically perfectly done but
in principle we are able to guarantee
anonymity so through the technology of
private and public keys we can run a
game evaluating a country even so we can
overwrite the country where each citizen
of the country can go and vote and
evaluate his or her country anonymously
and this is the second type of the game
which I would like to mention now and
which I am giving a great chance of
having a major impact for the future
through a series of evaluation games
kind of reference the madness and the
referendum I call it reference 21 but
you have multiple choices not just two
choices yes an or but at least three but
probably more so you can say definitely
No
rather no and yes at least so with this
technology we can we can let people
evaluate government how is that possible
how can people in totally different
system evaluate their governments well
you can do so we can do so thanks to
this technology and this way I believe
we can achieve the fair and transparent
society now of course cannot come to
Africa or to China and impose this we
need to you must improve must implement
democracy we cannot do that but what we
can what we can offer people to play
these games we can give them an anchor
to democracy and what is the result of
such an anchor Caitlyn Tamar k20 bond is
Kingdom 21 a new version of Kingdom for
example so we can have Bhutan where
people are happy we know it objectively
nobody&#39;s complaining but imagine that
the new king comes and people sign it&#39;s
a dick tale it&#39;s a psychopath whatever
and people start to be unhappy what can
we do now well anybody can down around
the game those people who are
stakeholders who are citizens they think
go and play and if we see that 40
percent of people say definitely know
that they are unhappy then there is room
for international pressures or even the
stay the Kingdom could have could have
his own law that something must change
so this is a new version of a system
Kingdom 21 analogously we can have we
can have party 21
oligarchy system mildly for some time
for some countries might be good you
don&#39;t know democracy 21 I believe is
under on the peak is of course will be
in my opinion in the past or maybe in
the future we may go even further we may
even decrease the the influence of state
and and there there are theories that
that are even more which promote total
freedom globally now
I&#39;m sorry my slide is gone oh I&#39;m sorry
okay
rifle so what is what is the result what
what is what is done what is our goal
what is the future now I believe that
energy created matter and through matter
metal formed life which was based on the
most essential molecule h20 now life
goes through evolution and indeed it&#39;s a
long journey full of suffering and
misery and also happiness but after this
long journey we blossom into h21 h21 his
human 21 it is a mental energy mental
energy and creativity and yes it is in
my philosophy I believe that h21 is
something that will connect our minds
together that we will create a global
consciousness the global consciousness
of all people which can ever be can
function in a completely new level of
existence and indeed I will this will
happen after we successfully pass the
social singularity
[Music]
thank you
[Applause]
