
[Music]
at 15 I decided to persuade my father of
take me to La Guajira an arid northern
Colombian Department probably the moment
I remember most clearly was the convoy
of three Tijeras Land Cruisers which
stopped in front of our car one night I
watched how grotesque men jumped off
these heavily armored cars with ak-47s
shotguns and all kinds of pistols at the
moment at that moment we realized that
we were in the middle of the desert
completely alone we have just been
stopped by a FARC convoy two of these
men stood in front of our car with guns
in their hands while the rest of the
convoy proceeded towards the village now
is part wasn&#39;t the initial shock of
witnessing this man killer of their cars
with their artillery but a sense of
insecurity and confusion we all felt for
half an hour there was absolute silence
for half an hour we didn&#39;t know what was
going on for half an hour we had two
ak-47s pointed at our heads also these
men eventually left the scene this is
still the most vivid memory I have of
those vacations but why does this happen
why does fear not violence but fear
forges more vivid memories now by living
in Colombia we&#39;re no strangers to living
in fear on sequentially we have grown in
an environment with little to no hope
ignoring the fact that hope is actually
our best weapon against terrorism
psychologically humans resort to fear
when they feel threatened
therefore panic arises quickly when
there&#39;s a terrorist attack as a matter
of fact the psychological impact of fear
provoking acts generates a collective
defense mechanism which causes
individuals to resort to alienation and
fear now that is stabilizing
psychological nature of terrorism&#39;s
impact have been wildly studied in
recent years and they&#39;re pretty well
summed up by Loren mellon a professor in
health psychology after
in a series of studies over the French
citizens after the Paris attacks of 2015
in her study Moline highlights the
diminutive likelihood of being killed in
a terrorist attack which for Americans
it&#39;s 1 in 20 million it is true that is
a statistics changes from country to
country but for most countries even for
some that are considered to be violent
like Colombia the probability is still
low so why if it&#39;s rational not to fear
terrorism we fear it at this interrogate
Mellon has a clearer and rather simple
answer EBT emotional brain training
according to Mellon when you witness
people storming out of an attacked
building when you see a row a row of
dead bodies and lying on the street
especially if these events occur in your
own country your brain triggers a
defense mechanism a fight or flight
inspired by fear moreover also these
axes don&#39;t affect you or your family
directly and they probably never will
the problem the brain learns from
witnessing violence and saves all of
those gruesome memories generating on
their behalf also all sorts of emotional
responses at this moment many
individuals stop being logical and
inspired by stress and paranoia the 1 in
20 million probability suddenly becomes
eat or be eaten after this hope is very
much forgotten terrorism is the result
of a wide range of segregations within
our society with rage insecurity and
fear division we can stop fighting front
against this threat and what unites us
and makes us stronger is hope many
studies have gone half conduct have
concluded that while militarism and
violence reduce the continuity or
efficiency of the attacks it cannot
eradicate its causes yet many countries
lack a peaceful approach to terrorism
when it has been proven wildly
successful for example in 2012 the
Colombian government along with a
consultative group led by Jose Sokolov
generated a communication strategy to
remote lies as many
as possible something that guns can
never achieve as a strategy they used a
variety of propaganda focused on talking
to the human and not the soldier the
group covered nine huge trees in the
jungle at a strategic places with
Christmas lights and beside them a sign
that says if Christmas can come to the
jungle you can come home demobilize as
it turns out Colombia&#39;s became extremely
confident and attached to these
strategies and many people in small
towns deep in the forest gave our
editorials jewelry or wrote notes and
place them inside florescent capsules
and thrown in the rivers for the
gorillas to retreat discussed want
immobilization every six hours all of
these leaves us with a reflection the
military can shoot as many bullets a
minute as far as humanly possible but
that only gives the high commanders of
the Girija proof that the government
doesn&#39;t care about the population in
distance regions where poverty so there
is hate will make more and more people
and least as an insurgent the world does
not need to see how many casualties the
military managed to us cheese in a
confrontation with the FARC the world
needs to see stories on how hope managed
to win over 17,000 courageous the world
needs to hear that hope wins many make
questions wants ability for solving
terrorism since it&#39;s widely believed
that governments are the only
organizations which float their wealth
and ability to generate collective
action can be fit there as a Mario in
fact many believe that the key to
eliminating potential terrorists is by
creating a new security checkups on
airports imposing sanctions on foreign
countries or neutralizing or drug and
warlords still solving this issue can
also depend wildly on us how can a
simple individual lower the impact of
terrorism the answer to this is hope
hope is usually regarded from a
psychological standpoint as a
game-changer thus if we take the
responsibility of forming a new
generation into having hope in humanity
will be effectively overcoming the
psychological consequences of terrorism
while giving us greater autonomy and
consciousness while participating in our
political apparatus in order to
formulate responsible and well thought
government policies that five terrorism
directly indeed the collective fear
generated by violence and terrorism has
acute implications over the development
of our communities still there&#39;s a way
for individuals to fight this intricate
phenomena from within themselves the
first step is to proliferate hope
throughout the world people need to
learn how to react to violence and fear
with objectivity and hope thus
reconciliation the trauma generated by
the massive attacks and constant stress
it&#39;s only after that trauma is
reconciled that we could effectively aim
at uniting and generating the policies
that will meet that will give us the
responsibility to tackle this
disgraceful issue
so remember despite how powerful we
might how powerless we might feel like
ants terrorism we as individuals do have
power we have hope thank you
[Applause]
