
I&#39;m here today to tell you a story this
is a true story and I know it&#39;s true
because I lived it and I breathed it for
every day of my life for ten years but I
don&#39;t think it started back ten years
ago it really started when I was in the
sixth grade at North Beach Elementary
School in Miami and I won a United
States savings bond for writing the best
essay on what democracy means to me and
I think that was the first manifestation
of my lifelong passion for improving the
operation of government so the story
that I&#39;m going to tell you is one of
very ugly backroom deals political greed
and political entitlement but it&#39;s also
a story of citizens coming together to
pull back the curtain on that kind of
behavior in the last 50 years there had
been many attempts to solve this problem
and I had been involved in some of those
later attempts and when the last effort
failed I said to myself I&#39;ve got to get
involved maybe I can make a difference
and so I dove in headfirst
suddenly ten years have passed and in
those ten years I found that I had been
involved in a political battle with the
establishment in Tallahassee and in
Washington but also in those 10 years
Florida had become a model for other
states and we now had a real chance to
have real representative democracy in
our state the major problem had been
solved so what was the problem the
problem was gerrymandering it&#39;s been
happening for centuries in our state
in our country you know every 10 years
after the census legislatures all around
the country redraw district lines
supposedly doing that for the purpose of
accommodating shifts in population but
in reality what they&#39;re doing is they&#39;re
rigging districts to perpetuate their
own power and that of certain incumbents
who they favor politicians go to
unthinkable lengths I learned to grab
power and then to hold on to it they&#39;re
actually choosing their own voters
rather than giving us the voters the
opportunity to select representatives of
our choice so this used to be legal in
our state and as we&#39;re speaking the
United States Supreme Court is
considering whether to make it illegal
in other states as well so how did they
used to do it
legislators draw district lines they
packed large numbers of opposition
voters into about a third of the
districts and then they spread their
favorable voters into the other
two-thirds with all with safe majorities
thus they&#39;re securing a perpetual
supermajority in our 50/50 state the
impact on Florida was tremendous cities
and counties were split look at Winter
Park Florida a town of eight square
miles 24,000 population they had four
different members of Congress
representing them and then the districts
were also very bizarrely shaped some of
you will recognize that there was a
district that started in Jacksonville
and made its way all the way down to
Orlando sometimes it wasn&#39;t wider than a
highway and then there was a Senate
district in southern Florida that went
from coast to coast from Palm Beach to
Fort Myers
connected by a thin strip that just went
through the bottom of Lake Okeechobee
districts like this should have been
compact and community based but they
were drawn to create a predetermined
electoral outcome on Election Day but
the worst impact was that when districts
are rigged to be sure wins for one party
or the other there are rarely challenges
from across the aisle representatives
are elected in their primaries and they
have no motivation whatsoever to come to
the center and find solutions for the
common good so there was only one
possible solution to this problem we had
to have strict rules to limit the
legislature when they draw those
district lines but we knew politicians
would never establish such rules and
limit themselves so the citizens had to
take matters into our own hands we had
to amend the Florida Constitution to say
that this is a daunting task is a gross
understatement it&#39;s a very arduous
process first you have to draft language
and the Supreme Court of Florida has
very strict legal rules for how the
language has to be drafted so we
assembled a team of expert lawyers from
all over the state and that team worked
for over a year and a half to get the
language just right but we also had to
make sure that our language was clear
and understandable to the voters and so
we conducted some polling and we
conducted some focus groups and with the
results of that research we refined the
language even further and finally we
were eligible for Supreme Court review
and wouldn&#39;t you know it the Florida
Legislature showed up in court to oppose
our amendments being on the ballot
finally three years after
during this project the Supreme Court of
Florida approved our language and we
were cleared to go on to the next step
well the next step was a tough one we
had to gather 1.6 million verifiable
signatures each signature on a separate
piece of paper do you have any idea how
much paper that is once we had the
signatures we ran a full-blown media and
voter contact campaign we included TV
radio direct mail door-to-door
communications social media but one of
the keys to our success was that we had
the support at every step along the way
of this project of every single
newspaper in the state of Florida so who
was we we were the fair district
coalition our coalition was made up of
dozens of non partisan organizations
literally thousands of people all of
whom felt really passionately about the
need to bring real representative
democracy to Florida and I had the
privilege of leading this coalition so
once our amendments were on the ballot
the legislature clearly demonstrated
that they had no intention of allowing
citizens to tell them what to do first
thing they did was they appeared in
court to try and have our amendments
removed from the ballot then they held
official legislative meetings with no
purpose other than to bring in speakers
to discredit our amendments and then
they voted on what we called a poison
pill amendment to put that on the ballot
in order to try and trick the Florida
voters when in fact if that amendment
had passed it would have eviscerated the
meaning of the fair districts amen
we had to retain lawyers go to court
explain how this was misleading and
thankfully the courts agreed and removed
the Legislature&#39;s amendment from the
ballot when all these other efforts of
the legislature had failed the
legislators and their political cronies
they went out and they raised four and a
half million dollars to run an ad
campaign against our amendments so I
guess you&#39;re all on pins and needles
what happened
I November 2nd 2010 the fair district
amendments prevailed democracy prevailed
and we won with 63% of the vote Florida
now has a constitutional framework for
fair redistricting not the end of the
story while we were celebrating on
election night our opponents were busy
getting ready to file a
middle-of-the-night lawsuit in federal
court to try and have the new
constitutional language held
unconstitutional under the Federal
Constitution
well we eventually won that lawsuit but
this started a whole new phase of our
quest our amendments were in the
Constitution but now we had to go to
court to defend them and make sure they
were properly implemented meanwhile back
in Tallahassee those entrenched
politicians were determined to continue
rigging districts even if it meant
violating the Constitution they held a
clandestine meeting just a month after
the election they brought in legislative
leaders legislative staff they brought
in
partisan lawyers and partisan political
operatives not only from Tallahassee but
also from Washington DC to develop an
elaborate scheme they wanted to appear
to be following the fair districts
amendment but really they had full
intention of drawing maps in backrooms
and passing them and so that their maps
would continue to favor their party and
certain incumbents as one court said
they were conspiring to make a mockery
of the fair districts amendments so they
held 26 public hearings all around the
state and they announced at each
hearings we are gonna have the most open
and transparent and interactive
redistricting process ever in the United
States of America but at the same time
the very time that those words were
coming out of their mouths in backrooms
there were paid partisan map drawers
again in Tallahassee in Washington
drawing maps to retain their
supermajority dominance in our 50-50
state and once they had those elicit
maps drawn they had to figure out a way
to slip them into the legislature and so
they developed a scheme to submit the
maps under phony names to try and make
it look like random members of the
public had drawn those maps rather than
who really drew them the paid political
operatives those final 2012 maps were as
gerrymandered and biased as any that had
ever been passed in Florida before and
this led to three and a half more years
of scorched earth litigation now we knew
that those maps were terribly
gerrymandered but in order to have those
maps set aside we
had to prove that in court so to hide
their actions the legislature actually
destroyed all of their internal
redistricting documents and
communications of course that made it
very hard for us to prove our case
but amazingly one of the conspirators
came forward with the truth and opened
the door for us to be able to prove our
case
so after scores of depositions after
dozens of hearings and weeks of trial
with eight major decisions from the
Florida Supreme Court the courts ruled
that the Congressional Mac had been
drawn illegally and then another amazing
thing happened the Florida Senate in
court confessed that it too had drawn
its map illegally and that it had
violated the Constitution so the court
ordered the legislatures to redraw it to
go back into special session to redraw
their maps and the legislators did that
but they couldn&#39;t agree on
constitutional maps and that left it to
the courts to select from maps that were
submitted by the various parties in the
end the courts found that the maps
submitted by the fair districts
coalition best complied and should be
used in 2016 and beyond this was a
complete and total victory for the
citizens of Florida we now have
districts in our state that are compact
and community based and not drawn to
favor any political party or politician
so
all we were tryin to do was to make
democracy work better in our state and
yet we had this very vicious opposition
the Florida Legislature all its public
resources and all its cronies but this
time the people prevailed over politics
but now you&#39;ve heard about the length
that some politicians will go to to
preserve their ill-gotten power and to
try and fool us the people of Florida I
urge every one of you to remain vigilant
and to get involved and never ever again
allow elected officials to put their
interests ahead of our democracy thank
you
[Applause]
