
[Music]
remember 2016 8 p.m. Prime Minister
Narendra Modi addresses the nation and
announces D monetization of high
denomination notes 84% of currency in
circulation cease to be legal tender
during the last 2-3 weeks or last 2-3
months I would say there have been lot
of debates whether the purpose for which
D monetization had taken place
have been achieved that requires a
debate by itself for greater
appreciation but one point that is well
appreciated and there has been consensus
on the collateral benefit of D
monetization that is the focus on
digital payments during the digital
payments is not really just recently
that we have talked about after D
monetization no digitization of payments
we are really talking about right from
90s I have been I have been working and
Reserve Bank of India for pretty long
time in the area of payment systems and
the first digital payment system that we
launched its electronic clearing service
is his credit is he as debit in early
nineties we launched RTGS system any of
the system but all the systems that we
launched we learnt you know we learnt a
lot lubed at the solution from the West
we studied their system we replicated
them and we did we marched ahead
gone are the states today in fact there
reversal it is they who are really going
to talk about it Reserve Bank of India
created a new department called
Department of payment system in 2005 I
had the privilege of being the first the
chief general manager departmental head
in the central office on policy
formulation on digital payments we
brought out the vision document there
after three more vision documents have
been created all talking about how we
build a last-gasp society less cos
Society in simple English less of cash
means gas amount of cash is less but all
our transactions must go through because
of not having cash no transaction should
suffer that is very essential component
so with less of cash how can all of our
requirements if we are city dwellers
going to the shopping mall food plaza
vegetable shops and trains buses autos
all the bills how we can pay
electronically and don&#39;t depend on cash
so the money is there money is not
reduced but money in the form of
currency nodes I promise to pay with
signature of the governor that is not
there but money is in the account using
that account how we do that so we say no
cash go digital means we pay digitally
for the transactions that we do that is
less gas and that vision has been stated
all along it is during this period of de
monetization that it was brought to
focus that it is not just Reserve Bank
and the commercial bank or banking
systems activity to talk about last
caste society it is this it is the
really it is the requirement for the
country we are talking about food for
all
house for all education for all health
for all our countries will go grown
should should be our GDP should grow we
should be the second or third largest
economy in the world
if that happens it results into higher
GTB higher income of the people people
who do not know what a breakfast means
they would have breakfast they would
have you know milk and fruits on that
table house is there they will pay they
will really go for holiday they will
have good clothes to really wear all
these things require monetary
transactions you imagine if the growth
happens and we become the third largest
we I I trust you all believe that India
can really reach that stage Reserve Bank
would have to build a possibly ten
printing press instead of really to buy
Reserve Bank and one by government and
more printing pace to really just manage
cash and the attendant you know the
evils of cash so let me not really go
really they black money this
non-transparency daytime did not
available these are being talked about
the fake currency these are all the
really the evils of castes not only we
attend to that we build a rich data on
the basis of data if the persons do
transactions the trans on the basis of
transactions data there is a really
credit scoring of the people in such a
large country we would like to take our
people live the people and be the third
largest economic power how can you do
when such a large number of people they
are not under even credit rating
who&#39;d give the credit the loans they
have to be brought to the formal economy
all these these attendants the attendant
benefits make it a practical necessity
I&#39;m really let me rating repeat a
practical necessity for the country as a
preparation for to be the third largest
or second largest economy world that
preparation is a is a visionary work
that government Reserve Bank the the the
intelligence here all would have to work
and think through and build the last
caste society so all these things that I
have shared with you they&#39;re all facts
all of you know very well the statement
that I am going to make and share with
you that India has now the unique
position to lead the globe in being the
first large economy to be really a
reasonably lass caste society and again
let me really redefine last caste
society means this society managing all
the transactions and even more
transactions with less than 60% of the
currency that you use than what you used
today
that means these 17 lakh crores of
really cash which is really in
circulation in the country after de
monetization they are all gone
gone back they had become ceased to live
in legal tender they have come back
ninety percent so in technical terms the
currency to GDP ratio which used to be
about 12 percent 12.3% came down to
about 44 percent it has won again gone
back to 11 percent how do we bring it
down to really five to four to five
percent that is a strategy that needs to
be done Singapore Sweden quite a few
countries they have done it
they have really very low currency to
GDP ratio largely cashless they have
already achieved but not the large
economy not the economy of such a big
geographical scale it is India which can
really take the lead and our time under
the Sun has come and we need to play a
role
three stories to tell what makes me
believe that it would happen
the as you know we are really learning
faster
we are moving you know we are
implementing in a smarter we can do it
but the in doing that the Story number
one is the story of MPC I as an
institutional innovation when I say NPC
in national payments Corporation of
India I had the privilege of leading
this unique institution for
eight-and-a-half we are still very last
month that is very early I retired last
night that this eight thank you so much
so during this eight my eight years and
PCI has brought an amazing result
what the country was looking for payment
systems solution now the country&#39;s
looking to entice I for all retail
payment solutions in the matter of eight
years as many as twelve electronic
products have been run out the first and
brought out and what is most important
most important is brought
interoperability that means all the
banks all the non banks all the wallet
players anybody engaged in payment
systems they are part of a big network
then only you can touch everybody&#39;s life
and PCI has been creating has been
created with a mission to touch
everyone&#39;s life by 2020 with one or
other electronic payment products and it
is with that pace that it is working
first thing it brought out in 2010
itself is I am PS immediate payment
system world&#39;s first instant money
transfer system
UK had done it a year earlier but in UK
the bans have the choice to delay the
credit to customers account by two hours
in India it started just instant and
that I am PS over a period of time has
become not only smartphone based it has
gone to the feature phone it has become
channel agnostic it has begun
internet-based it has become vice based
it has become really in all possible and
the crown jewel of for this I am PS on
the same rails is the UPI which you all
have heard and a few of few of you I
have really or many of you really who
have already used UPI you would have
known the power of UPI amazing product
people are really the world is just
astonishing
how India can do it such amazing product
of instant credit instant collect you
know even like financial address and
host of rich features that you can
connect if you have got four or five
bank accounts with a single app the way
you go to one ATM and draw cash from
even if the ATM is does not belong to
you because of interoperability created
by n PCI now an application has become
interoperability sit on that application
and you navigate to all your accounts
and completely open sourced and let me
share with you in in 2008 three years
back I had been to us and I visited
Google that time really sundar Pichai
really nobody knew that he would hear
the Google I had the privilege of
talking to for half an hour that time
UPA was not there I had gone to pitch
the idea that I am pearce is one that
you can really put in on your system and
I was told that now we are really
planning a wallet product that is our
global strategy and you would have seen
during the last few days last week
google has launched UPI they have
adopted Indian system
the reality is thinking that UPI is a
better alternative than the global
strategy that they had India took the
lead in the really mobile payment
strategy so the N PCI has also created
though as you know the world&#39;s first
really successful domestic card payment
network why I say first domestic and
part-time and network is in many
countries they have created rupee like
domestic card payment network to the
universalized card payment system now
Roubaix has come and being the most
successful reaching 800 plus banks in
four decades of operations of
international card companies only fifty
three banks had access to card payment
service thanks to the new infrastructure
and interoperability of n PCI now 800
plus banks have really come with this
institutional innovation in Story number
one Story number two is the Jung Trinity
which you have heard of the jump Trinity
J a and J for general giving the opening
of account they this is the lunch of the
John Trinity of where Rupa card was
adopted for everybody that is how the
card payment system got universalized a
person folding your card and standing on
the ATM even if he is rich or poor if he
person has got the card and standing in
the queue to draw the ET money
he is really equal access this great
democratization process having the
access to bank account having a card and
also really accessing the financial
services is a great utility then is for
other the
this is the eigen part of the rupee and
the different kind of cards this the now
hundred crore plus people have been now
given the Adha this is an innovation by
India that unique identity number or
social security number how it is
leveraged for a payment system and now
the electronic benefit transfer of the
government is being paid only through
Adha bulk through other now the idea is
now even the state government services
would also be done as per the
government&#39;s own admission nearly 55
crores of thousand crores have been
saved because of a harvest payment
system just making number as the
financial address and NPC has brought to
the other payment platform along with
you I di Nandan Nilekani took the lead
he happened to be the innovation advise
post your idea happened to be the
innovation advisor for and PCI and
helped in setting it up then really
obviously the mobile usable a billion
plus mobile we have to leverage and this
leveraging mobile for money transfer and
host of the government services
you know the topping up with this this
Trinity then really the Trinity Trinity
of BT Trinity which I call builds toll
and transit so this is Story number two
that wonderful solutions Financial
Inclusion technology payment systems and
socially engineering together the third
story is the deep commitment of the
government to make it happen the Prime
Minister himself talking about it he is
the chief you know executive officer or
chief marketing officer chief digital
digital officer of the country prime
minister in monkey bath program talking
again and again about digital payments
have you have you heard of we were thing
like a digital payment at targets of 25
billion being part of the Union
budget union budget is went for taxes
and now they are talking about the 25
billion this 25 billion have been broken
down into sub targets of individual
states individual central government
ministries banks on the basis of number
of four customers so their deep
commitment for the government I had the
privilege of meeting
Prime Minister Modi three times and in
this digital payment initiative in all
the three occasions he has listened very
intently what we want to do and how we
want to really make it happen so these
all the three stories the MPC is
institutional innovation and
interoperability story of wonderful
solution the story of the deep
commitment of the government combined
with the commitment of the regulator and
the banks makes me believe that India
can lead the globe and the large economy
to be the first last caste society in
the world thank you very much thank you
thank you
