
[Music]
so when I was young my parents told me
to work hard to get a university degree
so one day I will be an independent
woman with a strong career this is the
same advice as Jazmin got from her
parents her parents emigrated to Germany
just like my parents did one day with
the hope of creating a better future for
us their children home are always loved
machines since he was a little boy and
his biggest dream was always to work
with machines so once he was offered by
international company a job within the
factory facilities he was grateful
because it meant for him a stable income
for his family and at the same time he
would have the opportunity to work in a
technical environment halide followed
the steps of his father he was a banker
already and halide also became an
investment banker after several years he
moved into trading a job which is
associated with power wealth and the
excitement to work in a dynamic work
environment last but not least let me
introduce you to Yousuf Yousuf is a pure
sales talent he could sell basically
everything he could work here in
Marrakech and Gemma if not he&#39;s a talent
he started off with used cars he was
very successful and after a certain time
he walked he worked his way up to become
a sales representative at a
multinational company being proud of
being able to work in a modern work
environment
with a great team like-minded people so
you might wonder what do all of these
people have in common do they remind you
on someone you know maybe a family
member
these are very different people but they
share the same future there&#39;s one
commonality which is the fact that they
are labor how it is defined
today will be replaced by artificial
intelligence it is already happening now
so factory workers taxi drivers bankers
lawyers investment bankers people from
very different class all have this one
piece in common so please allow me to
share with you a little bit of
background about this technology
artificial intelligence AI has one major
goal the goal is to create systems that
can work intelligently and yet
independently this is the goal of AI it
is a part of computer science it
actually has many many subcategories a
lot of buzzwords a lot of people heard
and got really tired of by now and I
would like to trade some lights here
because there is a very easy way to
think about artificial intelligence it
is actually if you&#39;re related to humans
think about it in the context of a human
we humans speak and listen this is the
area of speak speech recognition we
humans see with our eyes this is the
area of a machine vision we humans can
move around fluently in any given
environment this is the area of robotics
we humans have the ability to recognize
patterns of similar
let&#39;s say these three chairs we see them
we realize it&#39;s three chairs machines
can do something similar but there is
one big difference machines are a lot
better in doing this because machines
can use data machine can use massive
amounts of data they can use in
different dimensions of data amounts
that we as humans definitely cannot even
imagine and there are a lot better than
us in doing this which is the area of
machine learning so one more last piece
of this one if you now think about the
human brain we all have one smaller
bigger it depends the human brain
consists it&#39;s a network of neurons
basically and we use this network to
learn if you replicate these
capabilities now to a machine you allow
a machine to process and to make
decisions just like a human being and
there are many many areas of this
already today we&#39;re talking about neural
networks that&#39;s the name of this
technology so far how does this affect
us exactly how does it really work let
me give you some very basic examples
here
Foxconn the provider of the iPhones the
company that builds actually the iPhones
for Apple already announced that they
will replace 60,000 of their factory
workers with robots robotic technology
as I explained it now think about this
what does it actually mean it means that
there was an economic decision taken
that made it very clear that there is
more efficiency in using a robot that
never sleeps has never vacation is never
sick and can do simple tasks like moving
goods from A to B and that this is
cheaper for a large company like Foxconn
than paying $5 a day to a factory worker
in China another
example a very famous law firm Clifford
Chance announced a partnership with an
AI company Kyra systems what their
algorithm does is basically that it
analyzes contracts it looks through
contacts takes up the test the text of
the contract and performs due diligence
work this algorithm do it
faster in a higher quality that any
possible lawyer could do and that is
reason why a AI is today so powerful let
me add one small note here today we see
your shift we see a shift where
computation power is rising there&#39;s more
powers in the computer and at the same
time the cost for storage is decreasing
this is why right now
AI is so powerful why we all talk about
the rise of AI in this very specific
moment and this will not change and
actually this is something that
generates a lot of fears for many people
and if you think about it why do we feel
this way it&#39;s very simple for so many
years we grew up to believe that we are
the superior race nothing no one better
than us on this planet for so many years
we were the best algorithm existing it&#39;s
not the case anymore
and this is threatening us because
obviously if you&#39;re in a situation like
this if you have to deal with such a
fear you will naturally think that
everything which is there to surpass you
your race that this must be inherently
evil and I&#39;m here today to tell you that
this is what Hollywood is portraying
this is not reality okay reality check
here tick box this is not what&#39;s
happening right now this is what the
movies are showing us
because actually if that would be the
case we would already live like this
because AI already did surpass us in so
many arenas so I believe that we have to
face this fear I believe that the answer
here lies within accepting this fear and
with trying to cope with this identity
crisis which we might have to on go
maybe this crisis is powerful enough for
us to reinvent who we are as human
beings what is human today so right now
I would like to ask you for your trust
please just for a few seconds I would
like to ask you to please close your
eyes right now all of you please just
your trust close your eyes and try to
feel no matter what you feel right now
just feel please hear me when I tell you
that this is what makes us humans our
ability to feel pain love being hurt our
capacity to empathize with other people
to be creative to be critical thinkers
this is what is human this will remain
this will be for us our skills there is
no such thing as artificial
consciousness what I just refer to is
the concept of true consciousness we
humans we are truly conscious and there
is actually nothing to fear for us
because there will be a way where we can
call work and coexist with these systems
AI has a play
it is much better than we are in
decision-making that is the fact
but together when we could combine the
strength of these intelligent machines
with the competences that make us really
human we could actually really create
something fantastic out here and I tell
you it is not technology that is evil it
is not technology being evil
it is us humans they decide how we use
technology and I would like to give you
a nice example quoting a great author
Noah Harare who had said well look at
the Industrial Revolution in the
Industrial Revolution we had some key
technologies like electricity like the
capabilities of manufacturing and the
same technologies were used to build
different societies from communism to
fascist societies to democracies so
right now it&#39;s for us to choose what
kind of society we want to create at the
end of the day I believe that the
differences in these societies is
ethical it is not technology therefore
we have to now create an ethical
framework that will help us guide our
way through the change we have to be now
mindful and making sure that we do not
feed by as daser into these systems to
make sure that this data does not
discriminate on any minority on this
planet which is already happening right
now and we have to think about how we
want to contribute to this new society
that we are building I believe that we
all have important pieces inside of us I
believe if we stay open and think about
how we want to save this new society
that we will experience what I call an
AI driven human awareness
[Applause]
