
[Music]
how do children with physical scars look
like oops that&#39;s me well I was a child
once and I&#39;m still my mother&#39;s favorite
daughter and I do have a scar when I was
five years old one day a boy the same
age as mine
barely sat two feet away playing with
small cars everything was going fine as
it should on a play date between a boy
and a girl but as they say silence is
suspicious when children are playing a
few seconds later
who threw the car straight at my face it
hit me on my eyebrow leaving a scar
where hair just refuses to grow it has
become a mark of my identity I mean I
stated on my national identity card so
that people can identify my body with it
god forbid and most of you have to
complain about bad driving license
photos kids will carry these cars into
adulthood and the rest of their lives
unless thanks to the advancement in
cosmetic surgery they can get rid of
them permanently and that is the miracle
of science but my question to you now is
how do children with emotional scars
look like wait were you expecting a
stereotypical image of a child holding
his head between the knees or maybe you
were expecting a child trying to shut
out the world by placing her hands on
her ears maybe you were expecting a boy
in tears or a girl looking at you with
sad glazed eyes well let me tell you
this picture of the three children
smiling is from 2014 when they were aged
six four and two and a half how would
you react if I told you that the image
was taken exactly seven days after their
father passed away and how would you
react if I told you that
three beautiful souls belong to me my
name is Samira Mumtaz I&#39;m 38 years young
daughter of a single mom proud mother of
three these three call me supermom and I
wear an invisible cape every day people
say when life throws you lemons make
lemonade
I say when life throws you lemons pick
them up and throw them back
you were never bound to catch them
anyways and not everyone likes lemonade
do they sometimes they can come at you
with the size of tennis balls at ball
launcher speed well miss some dot some
if your Roger Federer hit back all and
ace them however being amateurs at
handling life sometimes the lemons hit
us right in the face when we are not
looking when we are not prepared and for
those times I say wipe it wipe it before
it tries to penetrate through your very
existence making you better for life but
how does one teach all of this to
children how does one teach children to
identify and deal with the lemons in
their life how does one teach them hope
or about closed doors or open doors
because these are merely words in their
significant little world you see the two
binaries of joy and sorrow are at the
very heart of human existence
inseparable these two twins the yin and
the yang the black and the white the
good and the bad
they make up an individual the very
qualities that make us human find their
roots in these two extremes even in our
childhood as children our perception of
ourselves of others and even our
environment changes the way we deal with
these two extremes a society can be made
more human centric if the children of
that society
they are shaped into better individuals
and if the environment is child-centric
then we can help them develop into
positive human beings making them more
encouraging and productive towards
others thereby making them share the
joys and sorrows of others so in the
face of an adversity what can a parent
do to help their children develop a
positive attitude towards life I was
left a widow at 35 tragic yes
devastating unquestionably depressing
without doubt there is no adjective
befitting enough to express the loss of
a loved one I rushed to save my children
and try to seek ways to give them
meaning in this seemingly meaningless
world I cried but I also celebrated I
told them it was ok to miss I told them
it was okay not to while I had to teach
them that just because they did not have
a father didn&#39;t mean that they could not
do what other children were doing I also
had to teach them but just because they
did not have a father they could get
away with doing everything under the
garb of self-pity thank God for faith
thank God for siblings and thank God for
grandmas because my children were hugged
and cuddled and kissed by strangers and
family alike and like every parent
single or no I was there for each one of
them sometimes attending my son&#39;s sports
day and my daughter&#39;s science fair on
the same day for which she actually
calls me Super Mom I would attend
graduation ceremonies parent-teacher
meetings we were celebrating birthdays
socializing going out and I can&#39;t forget
those horrible vaccinations that make
your children cry and the whales get
louder and louder and louder as you&#39;re
dragging them out of the clinic they
were settling back in school and routine
and the teachers were given on a given a
heads-up on the situation
I was not looking for bad grades but I
was looking for the same signs as you
were when I asked you how emotionally
bruised children look like I was looking
for silence
I was looking fine to social behavior
and I was looking for glazed eyes but I
was so wrong because they were smiling
and laughing and being themselves yet I
fail to realize that they were facing a
much more practical world out there a
more real world that was deepening their
wounds my then five-year-old daughter
came to me one day and asked mama do I
draw a father now when my teacher asks
me to draw a family it just killed me my
ten-year-old daughter at the onset of
the summer vacation came to me and asked
mama will we ever be a family a happy
family again will we ever be able to do
things together as a family again
so their sentences and their questions
were punctuated with the word family and
at that point I concluded that my
children needed to learn what every
child needs to learn about belonging
about loss about love and about family
someone suggested child counselling
someone suggested increased socializing
another friend pinpointed spend more
time I was like oh they need some space
if I start appearing in their dreams
there won&#39;t be dreams anymore there
would be nightmares so I chose to do
what is a nightmare for most parents I
chose to travel with three kids and I&#39;m
alive and sane and I have survived
it was a life-changing experience for
all of us take me for instance
when I took up this responsibility I
vowed name I solemnly swore to let go of
mothering do you know what that means it
means saying bye-bye OCD as you sit and
you watch and you cringe as your child
plays with sand and dust it meant saying
goodbye to the health freak mommy and me
and let my children dip their feet an
icy cold water with thermometers and
aunt alergies in hand of course I was
the Liberator I let them sit along the
banks of a river
I made them explore the banks of Lake
Isle made them scale rocks I even let
them roll down hills and I also made
them taste snowflakes which are
tasteless by the way just in case you
wanted to know so in their eyes I had
finally established my role as a father
and their link to the community and the
outside world but how does traveling
develop a better understanding of life
in children the answer could be as
simple as taking away their smartphones
and gadgets because they keep them away
from reality anyways trust me I travel
without them and they don&#39;t miss them
either it gives me more pleasure when my
son comes to me and says and tells me
about the number of horses that he&#39;s
seen or the snow cape snow-capped peaks
or if he remembers the names of the
lakes that he&#39;s visited rather than tell
me about how much he scored on his
Nintendo so the world opens up for them
if you want your children to learn about
closed doors and open doors make them
travel they will learn that road
blockages and detours lead to beautiful
destinations earlier this year we had
planned to visit a lake it ended up
playing along the banks of a river and
witnessed a beautiful pink and green
sunset and it couldn&#39;t have been better
if you want to teach them about how
diminutive their existence is in this
world make them sit among vast vast
plains or in the company of gigantic
mountains want to calm the boy in your
boy take him to a water body and make
him stand and stare it&#39;s therapeutic
make them sit by a river make them taste
the river and then tell them that the
water cupped in their hands comes from
the melting snows far far away meant for
them to drink at that very moment so
make them feel special that way how
about teaching them hope
make them see flowers and miracles bloom
out of the barrenness and wildness how
about life take them for a boat ride
make them feel liberated and exhilarated
and then tell them that water is like
dying flowing and their lives are like
the wood of the boat
seasoning with time weathering the
storms yet resilient traveling help them
share share food clothes belongings even
beds it made them identify the weakness
in each other when my daughter developed
motion sickness her siblings would rush
bringing in vomit bags or when the same
daughter developed a fare of falling
while ascending on a track her brother
with whom she shares a terrible
love-hate relationship held her hand and
encouraged her all down the way in
collecting pinecones and leaves and
stones they were making new memories the
list is endless travelling brings people
close it brings your children closer and
I strongly believe that there is nothing
better than traveling to help develop
and strengthen the two ideals of love
and family in your children to quote my
10 year old daughter
family trips make us realize we can live
without others trips are fun and fun
makes you forget the bad things and I
asked her what are those bad things and
she said having no father and scary
dreams so the effect of these journeys
on the children go beyond measure for
now when I asked them to draw a family
they draw their pet cat - inspired by my
journeys with my children especially to
the rooftop of the world the disciple in
northern Pakistan
I wrote a prose poem that I would like
to share with all of you if I could
bottle up the floral scent of the crisp
breeze dancing between blades of grass
and beds of flowers and over the dark
flowing waters of the free land creating
soft ripples if I could bottle up the
pollen from the purple flower that sways
gently celebrating its brief existence
with the yellows and the blues if I
could bottle up the gold elixir swelling
the belly of the fuzzy be laboring in
quest to find sweet nectar perhaps for
the Himalayan bear a conspiracy unknown
if I could bottle up the sweet melody
from the whistle of the lazy Marmot
basking in the warmth of the Yellow Sun
or the breast of the wild muscular horse
that falls on the very grass it grazes
ever so gracefully without disturbing
the workings of the universe I would add
to it a tinge of the healing blue from
the azure sky silver of the speck of the
clean dust I would steal the white
purity of the fluffy cloud and a little
bit of darkness for balance from the
protective
over the vastness if I could bottle it
all up I would wrap it in faith and
caulk it with love and give it to a
child&#39;s broken soul so that it can let
go and live and take a swig or two when
it feels if it feels broken again thank
you
you
