
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
wishing upon a shooting star and tossing
a coin down the well these are both
ancient yet common ways of wishing for
things now in Japan what you do is you
fold paper cranes legends say that if
you fold a thousand origami cranes the
gods up above will peer down to earth to
heed your wish this task requires a lot
of dedication patience and well spare
time I know I know the amount of effort
you put in seems inconvenient
considering you just get one wish back
origami cranes are after all
simply paper folded several times to
imitate the shape of a bird and a
symbolic attempt to bring about what
seems unachievable and too ambitious
despite that this is a story of how one
girl&#39;s origami cranes influence the
world August 6 1945 this date may ring a
bell which shed it remains as one of the
most devastating moments in human
history you guessed it the dropping of
an atomic bomb on Hiroshima truly an
unforgettable event an even more tragic
for Sadako Sasaki she was just 2 years
old when she was caught in the blast she
did survive but 10 years later as a
result to the exposure to radiation she
was diagnosed with leukemia in her
hospital bed despite the sorrow of her
impending death she did not give up hope
attempting to fold a thousand origami
cranes she was anything from newspaper
medicine wrappings even toilet paper to
fight the cancer
she never gave up and she could remain
cheerful because she held on this one
wish to live
October 25th 1955 Sadako had passed away
after managing to fold six hundred and
forty four cranes her death reminds us
of all the children who died in the
atomic blast and her origami cranes are
symbolic of how wishes can overcome
despair following her death her story
became famous worldwide in fact a
children&#39;s book was written by an
American author Eleanor Kerr it was
translated into different languages and
is now mainly read mainly read in
primary schools for geese education
furthermore a Children&#39;s Peace Memorial
was built on Hiroshima in her honor it
features a statue of Sadako holding up a
large origami crane above her head it
represents the hope hope that one day
nuclear weapons will be abolished and
that no children would ever die from a
nuclear blast again it was built to
carry the children&#39;s wish for world
peace
every August 6 you could see many
children visiting the site covering the
monument with origami cranes to stand
for this wish today you could say that
this action has influenced the world it
is common to see a thousand origami
cranes being sent to spread awareness
whether it&#39;s a campaign for tsunami
victims or cancer patients this message
of hope is sent to support them through
tough times I will write peace on your
wings and it will fly around the world
to carry this message wrote Sadako in
her diary
now she may have died tragically young
but it seems like the gods did hear her
message thank you very much
you
