
[Music]
one morning when I was 18 years old I
woke up to a severe headache and my ears
were ringing like never before
and as I opened my eyes I felt nausea
s-- the world was not exactly spinning
but felt very weird and I couldn&#39;t think
straight a thought popped into my head
I&#39;m not dead I fail I had attempted
suicide the night before by swallowing
up all the painkillers that I could find
in my house why I was severely depressed
and angry angry at what life had to
offer me I was also hallucinating seeing
things like demons in her invoices
I was also paranoid and thought that
someone was listening in on me and was
plotting to kill me
I was under the influence of crystal
meth one of the most addictive drugs in
the world
I am a recovering drug addict and a
former religious cult member
what motivated me into those was my
anger towards this world dressed up in a
desire for world peace
and today I want to talk about how
conflict and anger led me to finding
inner peace hoping that this talk may be
helpful to somebody
as a kid I was always frustrated because
it felt like the world was forcing me to
be someone else
and I was angry because I didn&#39;t see the
connection between what this society
expected me to do in happiness nor did I
see the point in doing anything because
I thought that no matter what I did I
was gonna die anyway I rebelled I argued
with my teachers and friends I got into
a lot of fights and the more I learned
the more I started to feel that this
whole world was messed up school to me
was prison where they brainwash people
to become slaves to the people in power
again I didn&#39;t see any connection
between school and happiness so when it
was 15 I quit school
it was probably during this time when I
tried my first rug I tried it because I
wanted to do things that this society
told me not to do because I thought that
in order to change the world rebellion
was the way
I went back to school after a year
because my father convinced me to do so
but I was still experimenting with
different drugs it eventually came
across crystal meth and immediately got
hooked
I made money through stealing and did
crystal meth on a daily basis
now I would never make the choice to
steal or do crystal meth but back then I
was really struggling confused looking
for love inner peace and the right way
to live
the continual use of crystal meth really
messed me up I ended up attempting
suicide and encountered close calls with
death I seriously thought that it would
not live till 20
but contrary to my expectations I was
able to quit before I turn 20 the reason
I was able to decide to quit was because
I started to feel like a loser and
enslaved to crystal meth my life was
completely controlled by it it felt like
the drug was forcing me to be someone
else an addict I don&#39;t like that I
became very angry and this anger
reminded me of when I was a kid when I
first had a vision of world peace a
world where everyone was living happily
and peacefully together despite their
differences but ironically this desire
was based on my anger towards this world
I decided to quit but it wasn&#39;t easy I
people that I quit crystal meth and I
really meant it but the next day or week
or month or in a few months I will be
doing crystal meth again and this psyche
will continue on for a while
a lot of people lost trust in me
eventually some started criticizing me
as a liar that really tore me apart I
had already had enough of that because I
was constantly criticizing myself in my
head my self-esteem hit rock bottom I
lost trust in myself and frankly that
was one of the most painful parts of
this whole drug experience
studies suggest that it is very
difficult to stay clean for life once
you get addicted because the addiction
takes place at our neurobiological level
the relapse rate is set to be as high as
88 percent according to a particular
study
but to those of you out there currently
struggling to quit I want to let you
know that it is possible to get your
life back
how do you think that was eventually
able to quit when I think back thought
was very angry at that time I was
desperately looking for love and inner
peace where I could just be myself where
nobody and nothing was forcing me to do
things and I was really tired of
fighting against my own addiction in the
terrible flashbacks
that was when my friend urged me to try
his religion
I started practicing their meditation on
a daily basis and within two weeks the
flashbacks were gone and I immediately
felt love and life force I thought wow
this religion gave the answers to all
the questions that I&#39;d had since early
childhood it claimed that it had proof
that life would continue after death
and if you believe in their religion you
will be happy now and in your afterlife
but if not you&#39;ll be unhappy now and
most likely go to hell in your afterlife
and if everyone in the world believes in
this religion we would have world peace
but if not the world was going to come
to an end
so I side
I finally found a way to really
contribute to world peace
in about four and a half years I have
successfully recruited hundreds of
people and was leading a group of about
a thousand members
I was looked up by my fellow members but
Hayden and despised by pretty much
everyone else who knew me because the
way I recruited people was forceful as I
believed that that was the right thing
to do
however I eventually learned that the
group was a cult
it took me several painful days to
decide to leave the group and to go
around apologizing to everyone only to
be faced by the hatred of not just the
majority of the people who I had
attempted recruiting but my former
fellow cult members with the exception
of only a few
and several years later
I left the last religious group which I
had joined after I loved the cult
I got tired of face and the attitude of
we are right and you are wrong we are
the good guys and you are the bad guys
the world of us versus them
the world of conflict
after that I was constantly in conflict
with myself I was criticizing myself and
I hated myself for all the things that I
had done
it took me years to forgive accept and
love myself and to be where I am right
now
that is a short version of my drug and
cult story
I currently don&#39;t believe in any
particular religion but I&#39;ve come to
believe through my experience that a
good religion helps a person find inner
peace makes a person more compassionate
more loving and kinder and leads a
person of freedom
now I want to change the tone a little
bit and introduce two of the things that
I do every morning
after I left the cult to live a peaceful
life
I write in my journal whatever comes to
mind first thing in the morning I keep
this totally private and not even my
wife nor my son knows what I write in it
I hope
it helps me let go and organize my
thoughts
after that I practiced some form of
meditation usually mindfulness
meditation or a loving-kindness
meditation mindfulness is a term we hear
quite often today
I personally define it as the practice
of freeing oneself and connecting with
inner peace by being aware of and kind
to what is in the present moment and
learning its nature
I know that was a bit long
love and kindness meditation is a
meditation where you recite phrases that
help you cultivate good will towards
yourself and others
I&#39;ve been practicing both forms of
meditation for about 10 years now and I
can literally say that they have saved
my life
conflict and anger led me to finding
inner peace
I&#39;ve come to believe that earpiece is
not necessarily the absence of conflict
anger guilt remorse greed sadness
uncertainty suffering or any of the
so-called negative stuff
it is what&#39;s found when you transcend
words and concepts and truly accept and
love yourself for who you are in each
and every moment
you don&#39;t have to force yourself to be
something other than who you are to
connect with inner peace inner peace is
always there for you
one morning
when I was 37 years old I woke up to a
slight brain fog and my ears were
ringing as usual I got out of bed did my
morning routine and headed out to work a
thought popped into my head
I&#39;m grateful to my past for teaching me
what is important in life and to all my
friends my teachers my family and all
beings
I want to help people find inner peace
world peace is something that starts
from within may all beings be happy and
peaceful Yoshi get them on Kafka day hey
way that I&#39;m messy thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
