
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we live in a world that is constantly
changing adapting and rotating we live
in a world where philosophy laws are
constantly revolving however we rarely
get the time to stop and to consider
some of the smaller things that are
still important that are changing since
the 16th century power has changed
immensely and therefore it seemed that
this is a good period to compare power
now and then in order to analyze this
question the Oxford English Dictionary
defines power as the capacity ability to
direct or influence the course of events
or the behavior of others
this means that power surrounds us it
encompasses us and is all around for
example I have power over influencing
the way you may perceive power after
this talk I have power over my future as
do you and many more people around the
world in order to make this comparison a
bit more centralized I&#39;m going to focus
on three key areas political social and
economic power in terms of political
power a lot has changed through monarchy
government and judiciary but firstly
what do these three people have in
common
Theresa May Clemens the seventh and
Henry the eighth all had or had the
ability to influence or direct people
they&#39;ve all had power however when I ask
you a slightly different but nonetheless
similar question what do these people
not have in common
weirdly enough the answer is the same
power Theresa May has significantly less
political power and directly influencing
England than Henry the eighth did in
influencing England&#39;s politics and is
the same with Queen the Queen today in
the 16th century government and
Parliament had less power than today
Henry the eighth was the supreme head of
the church created laws and had supreme
power over England
so much though that in 1539 the
Reformation Parliament had enacted the
proclamation by the crown Act
this gave Henry eight power to legislate
to write by degree and therefore he
gained more power over Parliament
however nowadays we scrutinize in
question Teresa made use of this same
clause that was accepted in the
sixteenth century and so surely the way
we perceive and view power has immensely
changed if we were questioning the use
of the same clause furthermore if we
compare Parliament today to what it was
we can see that actually the role of the
monarch in Parliament has been greatly
reduced Henry the Eighth had a lot more
power than the who are queen today and
so much so that angle now enjoys a
constitutional monarchy whereby the
Queen is considerably less judicial
legislative and executive powers than
before her powers have been reduced down
to nonpartisan functions and so we must
question the fact what is the rule
rolled the Queen now is she just a
judicial a visual image of England a
memory of the past and present to live
on in the future when this sense the
power of the monarchy has affected
England greatly as the role she plays in
Parliament has changed significantly
from that of Henry the eighth another
key example of how power has changed is
the decline of imperialism as you can
see from the map the 16th century
boasted many powerful empires the French
colonial empire the Habsburg Empire the
kibou Empire the sava fid dynasty the
Mughal Empire and the Ottoman Empire but
the list goes on if we compare to the
equivalent today we have trading blocks
and I&#39;m not saying that&#39;s less trading
blocks now but the power that trading
blocks have is considerably different to
that of empires the trading blocks we
have today expand the world just as much
as empires such as the European Union
APEC Asian CARICOM NAFTA Mercosur and
the list continues however if we compare
say the Habsburg Empire which is a
powerful
during the sixteenth century with the
equivalent of the European Union we can
see that actually the European Union has
less power over the trading nations than
that of the empires in the Habsburg
Empire during the sixteenth century
citizens were in a lot less control of
their lives than today
politics was corrupted and religion was
corrupted and society was often run by
potent aristocrats or monarchs one of
the most famous aristocracies being the
house of Medici the house of Medici was
an Italian banking family that ruled
Florence for many years and in the 16th
century Cosimo the first also expanded
the empire to increase to the Grand
Duchy of Tuscany the perspective of
power in the 16th century can clearly be
evidenced through niccol√≤ machiavelli
&#39;s the prince where he stated it is much
more safe to be feared than to be loved
evidently this unequivocal quote shows
that actually power was desired in the
16th century whereas now it was required
and needed in order for a world to
rotate not only has the political
structure of the monarch and Parliament
power changed but also from a more
global perspective the structure of
nations as you can see from the graph
between 1800 and 2011 the number of
democracies has greatly increased
although this does not explicitly
represent the 16th century
it shows the actual trend in the
democracies and in my opinion
democracies we mean we have more power
we have more via vote and we have more
free speech in what we desire and this
means that surely we have more power
over our nation and the course of events
we have the power to vote of freedom
speech and many more rights that allow
us as Democratic citizens to say what we
want these human rights are essential to
our society in the equivalent in the
sixteenth century was almost irrelevant
to daily life now it is not just
political power that has changed but
also social power as I&#39;ve mentioned the
Medici family were profound in Italian
politics they were also extremely
powerful wealthy and they were able to
attain religious power as well with
three popes from the Medici family Pope
Clements our servants was around during
the Reformation on the 16th century
sermons the seventh or otherwise moments
Giulia the Giuliano de Medici was the
present during the Reformation and
therefore he shows that actually as a
family they were in theory a
monopolistic family controlling religion
politics and culture evidently religion
was essential people&#39;s lives in the 16th
century and thus the Pope had vast
amounts of power for example in 1513
Giovanni Medici was able to persuade the
Pope to return the power of the Medici
in Florence but it was not just the
Medici that had power both in politics
and religion on the 3rd of November

15:34 Henry the eighth passed the act of
Supremacy by the house of parliament
thereby transferring potestas
jurisdiction as&#39; or the right to
exercise jurisdiction over the church to
the crown this made Henry the eighth
power to be head of the supreme church
and this ultimately reduced the power of
the Pope evidently the monarch had rule
and rulers had much more power than much
more power over the nation&#39;s and
different types of power in the
sixteenth century
now religion in politics is a lot more
separate rather than being intertwined
and combined in the 16th century
religion more people&#39;s lives the church
owned land taxes and could change if you
went to hell or heaven after purgatory
or surfy believed for example the Pope
own extensive lands in France and
southern Italy and central Italy but
power also meant wealth and corruption
in some sense many popes lavish their
families and would build up armies to
fight for them however now religion has
a much more appropriate point in our
lives and actually religion has been
separated up into much more different
religions for example the Reformation of
the sixteenth century allowed different
people to have different views in
separate religions 16th century society
was very different to today laws were
nothing like they were today and people
were ruled by food
Lord&#39;s human rights were miss speck in
society people were often owned and this
meant that as humans they had a lot less
power in affecting and influencing their
own lives however today we have a lot
more human rights such as the European
Convention on Human Rights such as
article 8 which gives us the right to
respect our own family lives or other
acts that live give us the right to life
and freedom of speech so today we have
greater control of our own lives and
that&#39;s the course of events in our lives
finally from an economic point of view
economic power has changed through both
society and politics in the 16th century
a key difference in economic power was
the way and attitudes in monopolies
monopolies were surrounded in the 16th
century most notably by Venice as a
monopolistic trading power this pushed
up power prices due to their market
dominance however nowadays there are
still monopolies and many around the
world
however monopolies are normally
restricted nowadays by legislation such
as the Competition Act of 1998 or the
Enterprise Act of 2002 thereby making
cartels illegal this means that actually
power is being perceived differently as
we&#39;re trying to target and reduce power
nowadays we&#39;re in the 16th century it
was allowed to occur and it was normal
it was usual in order to answer this
question of how power has changed it
only seems right to question if the
change of power is good or bad in my
opinion it is good less power means less
corruption less ask aristocrats and more
of a democratic society as citizens we
can have more say in the course of our
events in our nation we have more power
we can reduce the power of those above
us and this means that actually we have
a more equal society to this day there
are still nations that have leaders with
unquestionable amounts of power but
these nations are undeveloped and
isolated from the world they represent
how there&#39;s too much power available
things are not always good
that actually power can be almost
destructive in the sense in 1887 Lord
Acton wrote a letter to Bishop Mandel
Creighton with his concerns regarding
the more problem of writing about the
corruption of popes in religious history
in one of his letters he stated power
tends to corrupt and absolute power
corrupts absolutely great men are almost
always bad men even when they exercise
influence and not Authority ultimately
this shows that having power is not
necessarily a good thing
and then it can sometimes reduce the
influence of those that need influence I
believe that in the 16th century a lot
less people had more power but now more
people have less power the more power we
have as citizens the more ability we
have to say what we think is democratic
people and thus we are able to make our
society more equal and more free thank
you very much whistling
[Applause]
