
good money again exactly hundred years
ago Ivan Einstein theoretically
predicted the existence of gravitational
waves today and will tell you how we can
use these elusive ripples in space and
time to observe the universe in a
completely different manner so he
started a bit of history the modern
astronomy begins with telling you&#39;ve led
the Italian physicist astronomer
mathematician engineer who lived in the
16th century
four hundred years ago so Galileo made
an remarkable instrument called the
astronomical telescope and very he
looked at least by using this telescope
and he discovered something very very
unusual
he went from number and usual mysteries
what is that for example when we look at
the moon he found that the moon is not
that perfect trans students fear until
it was thought then it was instead
marred by large mountains and craters
except services no even more perfect
than the surface of the earth so see he
recorded his observations in his
exclusive trains which are remarkable
even now so when cally look at the
geometry using his telescope again he
saw three little objects moving around
the Jupiter the moons of the Jupiter
this is also completely unexpected
because until then most of the
philosophers believed that all the
celestial or what is orbited the earth
because the center of the universe after
all so gather these discoveries
challenged the people in early or the
times and essentially became an integral
part of what is called
revolution and all of the modern science
and technology essentially came after
this movement so I would say that the
astronomy has an important impact on our
daily lives and that there the last
century witnessed another major
revolution Minister astronomy for
example people realize that there is
light then beyond the frequency bands of
visible men come to the guillotine
magnetic radiation so our human eye is
sensitive to only a small extraction
small range of frequencies of the full
electromagnetic waves and for example
radio waves microwaves x-rays etcetera
and the last century scientists have
built instruments that can detect light
this invisible life of this various
frequencies of the electromagnetic
spectrum and when they used these
instruments to observe the universe it
again into another big discovery and as
again not a revolution are you say so
for example if you look at the universe
in microwaves what you get to see is a
picture of the universe when it was only
a four hundred thousand years old
remember that how a universe is like 13
billion years old now so at this young
age before the four hundred thousand
years old the universe were just a bowl
of hot gas so this for the regions shown
in this red here since we became stars
and galaxies and these blue regions that
the cooler regions isn&#39;t he became large
intergalactic voids
so it&#39;s a bit afraid to say that
essentially the entire information that
we have we have about the universe it
simply comes from astronomical
observations of different frequencies of
electromagnetic waves but recently
sonic observations using completely
different
possible this is using gravitational
base as I said earlier I mean Stein
theoretically to the addictions to it
gravitational waves exactly 800 years
ago and father his theory of gravity
called the general theory of relativity
so the spirit predicts that any massive
object like the earth curves the space
and time around me too so so gravity is
nothing but the curvature of space and
time so since the space is curved like
that usually challenged to a straight
line start to bend near massive object
what does need to come time it means
that like that the time runs slower near
massive object for example near a black
hole or the surface of the earth it
sounds completely ridiculous I know but
these effects have been measured with
remarkable accuracy by a number of
laboratory tests as well as a freedom
astronomy observations in fact we all
use the predictions of Einstein&#39;s theory
no daily life for example I use
Einstein&#39;s theory to navigate myself to
spend you this morning using a GPS so
the the tiny slowing of tiny at the
surface of the earth due to the mass of
the Earth has to be precisely accounted
for GPS system the work so I said
Einsteins is object theory has already
made in spirit of daily lives in
technology so I said gravity is the
curvatures
phase and time so if objects move the
motion of massive objects create ripples
in space and time called gravitational
waves so we expect a number of
astronomer phenomena digital
astronomical
phenomena such as to to create
gravitational waves for example the to
compact stars orbiting each other in a
binary system or when two black holes
collide in a distant universe physical
produce this ripples in space-time that
propagates outwards and reaches and that
could be potentially detect by observers
in the earth so when the gravitational
waves pass through the third they
distort the space in a very
characteristic fashion like moon dust by
hearing tides on on the sets of the
earth so specially doubt these waves
create tides on their head but these
distortions are extremely tiny for
example when a gravitational first
through the third the Earth&#39;s diameter
changes temporarily by a small amount by
an amount that is compared to the size
of a atomic nucleus extremely small but
a large number of international at a
large international collaboration of
scientists and with ample now of the
LIGO scientific collaboration in LIGO
Bronco scientific collaboration has been
engaged in an exciting search detectors
tiny ripples in space-time with tiny
perturbations in the space by using very
large instruments called the light bulb
and bring home observatories and they
make the first success on the 14
September 2015
ladies and gentlemen we have detected
gravitational waves we did it
this is David I see the direction of the
light laboratory in Champaign so this
signal by studied observed signal the
scientists have concluded that this is
produced by the merger of two black
holes at a distance of 1.3 billion light
years earlier these black holes were 30
times as massive as the Sun and they
managed to produce an even more massive
black hole that is 60 times the mass of
the Sun that is rapidly rotating in the
entire history of astronomy this is the
first time we are observing as the light
signal from a black hole because by
definition black holes do not emit any
light so you cannot detect black holes
when using any traditional ways of
electromagnetic astronomy this is such
an energetic even so that since if the
energy release to the gravitational
waves over an extremely small period of
time
a tiny fat from a second essentially it
was larger than the luminosity of all
the stars in the universe put together
you could say that it outshines the
entire visible universe in a tiny
fraction of time by putting all this
energy into gravitational waves so why
is it isn&#39;t it until a big discovery
apart from proving Einsteins right this
is essentially beginning a completely
new way of looking at the universe it&#39;s
a completely new branch of astronomy so
so I would say that it&#39;s not a way of
looking at the universe because the
gravitational base that we can detect
currently have the frequencies of the
audio frequency man the frequency bands
that can listen using our our ears so
it&#39;s more like listening to the universe
gravitationally and astronomy is like
listening to the universe
so in this sense I can see that the
future of astronomy is probably bright
but it&#39;s also very loud thank you very
much
