
[Music]
when you stop playing you start dying a
matter of life and death
and we had our share of high work
pressure people feeling trapped
desperate darling how can play bring
relief now eight years ago I was at
earning a favor to Peter
and are searching for public weather
data for his Series game and I was
amazed by these digital games that I saw
they so easily could make me understand
complex matters as water management in
Holland how does that go
how&#39;s it possible from playing a game on
a screen transfer meaning in reality my
reality I was keen on finding out and I
found the very heart of play so I
started talking to directors and
managers about his play and they would
say well Union play is for children not
for us serious professionals we can&#39;t be
seen in a ball game so if I would add
the word serious to game making it
serious games would you play in the
office I want you to feel the effect of
these games and I invite you to stand up
and play with me for just a moment now
and we are going to do circles in the
air so draw circles against the ceiling
with your hand with a finger very good
and lower your hand still drawing these
circles and we do that for a last step
one time now look upon these circles and
tell me in what direction are you
drawing and in what direction did you
start ah the other way what happened let
me be brief here on this small game
please be seated again something
happened something happened but what
happened a small gain with hidden
meanings and the first one is about the
routine when you&#39;re caught off guard you
will your routine will kick in and the
game makes you realize to change your
routine you need much more dedication
time and attention the second meaning is
about the perspective you are able to
change your perspective as long as you
realize from which angle you&#39;re looking
at it and in the office when you are
having more perspectives you are having
more choices what to do and having
choice brings you relief so would you
play these games in the office most
people still hesitate because they fear
to stand out fear to feel fear to be
seen in a ball game so let me tell you
the story of three young she&#39;s a manager
at the Royal Military Police and that is
the corner click America see her team
write policies but they got rejected all
the time and she did find out why
because there are too many typing errors
in
policies and she had an idea how to
tackle this got her team together and he
set one goal no more typing errors they
needed a few rules one Thea would be the
last one to read the policies if she
found no mistake she would forward it to
management she found one you had to
correct it and you needed to treat the
whole team for cookies guess what very
first days kitchen was loaded with
cookies so what does that mean still too
many errors that&#39;s what it meant and the
team realized now they had to change
something they had to change their
routine working in isolation they needed
to cooperate gave each others that work
to correct it before sending it as
l√∫cia so that&#39;s what happened
long story short management satisfied so
the team was in stress they changed
their routine and they got more
perspective and found a solution and
relieved and were relieved at the end
and why why was this little game so
effective because it met the four
defining traits of game and play the
first one is goal there was a goal
giving you a sense of purpose to do so
there were rules and rules limit your
routines so you have to become creative
finding solutions and three there&#39;s a
feedback system you remember the cookies
that is telling you how close you are to
your goal and for the voluntary
participation that means you accept the
goal the rules and the feedback system
so you can keep yourself safe while
experimenting while failing while
standing out and you enjoy the play so
for defining traits altogether in a
delicate balance and once balanced well
play will emerge
also in the office now now you know how
play can emerge I&#39;m going to tell you
how play can make you and your
organization grow to achieve your
business goals I&#39;m going to tell you
about the Sirica training December last
year 25 judges came from the Middle East
to the Hague the International City of
peace and justice and they came for
improving their skills on legislation
drafting and that is writing laws so
professors experts scientists they all
flew in to teach and I flew in to play
and in this particular line of electors
I was really nervous
will they the participants ever
understand my language of play so the
first day I entered the Academy of
legislation it is at the lung of four
house it&#39;s a state mansion so we had
high ceilings marble floors silk
wallpaper and I heard Arabic French and
English I looked into the room I saw dr.
Hamada Sal he my interpreter I saw one
expert
I saw slight 87 and I saw 25 judges all
tangled up in cables headsets headphones
tablets I thought there&#39;s hardly any
room to breathe and oxygen was running
out so I thought if I was not there they
would have taken notes as usual they
would have asked some questions as usual
and they would have returned home as a
daily routine but I was there
I was there
and Hammoud I was ready to assist so I
stood up thinking Union go slowly go
gently and 24 pair of eyes were looking
at me and they were thinking she has a
very bad hair day so I thought okay I
brought a suitcase this suitcase and I
also had slides and this is one of the
slides a personal profile they could
make selfies and fill it out and this
exactly got judge Medina and fired up so
much he asked me group learning union
play with the suitcase how now with you
and I said yes so judge Menen stood up
and he was ready to play and we played
warp juggle with Abu Apollo beer the
other way around actually we played this
ball game and I used it as an instrument
of analysis I needed to know the
flexibility of their minds I needed to
know what characters are had in a room
and judge McGann he used to game too he
grew he became the informal leader of
the group during the learning journey
and being the youngest one the senior
judges let him do so and why was this
because play shifted their perspectives
on each other and that&#39;s why it happened
so the team played and did brainstorms
post-ups after-action reviews pre-mortem
visual drawing
and public speaking they combined the
hardcore knowledge on legislation
drafting together with a playful way of
learning and they returned home all
right
in August just in August because of this
day ban because of you I wanted to talk
to judge eNOS Matar and judge
eNOS Matar she is judge at the Court of
Appeal in tennis and she told me she was
she reconnected with her passion again
during the training she valued the
interaction with the judges so much she
wished she had 100 copies of Union in
the office now and fortunately for my
husband
and unfortunately for eNOS there&#39;s only
one so what did she do she applied the
playful methods herself
and what about modeun he hurried back
home because he is the the judge of the
Court of First Instance in Amman Jordan
so his team is suffering from high work
pressure as well
he analyzed with the exact same ball
game one of the procedures the
application procedure consisting of 12
steps and together with this team they
combined three steps and they cut off
some waiting time - and now this
procedure has two steps the applicants
feel relieved but his senior staff -
they hug him in the corridors for light
in their work burden he saw his team
team changing they are much more engaged
in a word because they could change
their perspectives and their routines
and the team actually is growing right
now they feel they can change the image
of the civil servants in Jordan because
usually they are seen as lazy and
unhelpful but not the front desk of his
court you will see
careful carrying civil servants who are
taking and dealing with the execution of
the court sentences so one interpreter
and 25 judges they lifted me up to grow
and to show you how to achieve business
goals at office how to play so stop
dying start playing
[Applause]
[Music]
