
[Music]
[Applause]
hi my name is Amara Pope if I were to
come down today and introduce myself to
you and ask you who are you and where
are you from
what would you say what is your
knee-jerk response I myself am often
asked the question where are you from
and where are you really from I never
really noticed it before not until I was
asked this question over and over again
until I had my answer rehearsed hi my
name is Amara and I&#39;m from Elmira my
parents are from Trinidad and my
great-grandparents are from India
I myself was born in Scarborough Ontario
whoa so most people don&#39;t realize the
implications of asking me the question
where are you really from a lot of
minority people are faced with these
slight interrogations to legitimize who
they are and how they got to where they
are today I&#39;m here today to talk to you
about how that question where are you
really from has affected me my research
and my current work today after recently
moving to Vancouver I began to question
where is home to me I realized that all
of us are hybrids affected by many
different communities and cultures and
those cultures and communities are hard
to isolate and define themselves take
for example the community of Canada what
does it mean to be Canadian do we have
to support the maple leafs drink maple
syrup and eat beaver tails
I mean I am a Canadian that really loves
her Caesars but I don&#39;t think that&#39;s
what defines what a Canadian is I myself
see Canadians as a multicultural
community a Canadian to me can be so
many different things wrapped into one I
myself I&#39;m Canadian I was born in Canada
why is that not enough what makes
someone more Canadian than me is it
based on race ethnicity background I
realized that many people face the
situation of where are you really from
every day even the musical artist Drake
who some of you may know and multiple
and multiple interviews and music videos
he actually describes what it&#39;s like to
be a black Jewish child when he was
growing up and a biracial hip-hop artist
today as a biracial member of society
Drake is immediately placed into a
historical trajectory of immigration in
a settler colonial context meaning he&#39;s
compared to other people of his
demographic and within the genre of
hip-hop itself he&#39;s often seen as too
black to be Jewish or too white to be a
hip-hop artist his descriptions of not
belonging and feeling authorized really
resonated with me so during my master&#39;s
degree at Laurier I decided to create a
study around Drake to explore the idea
of a hybrid identity what it means to be
a Canadian so I took three of his music
videos and based on my own experience I
explored the ways in which I was able to
recognize how he performed different
identities in different situations much
like I do performing my Trinidadian
lifestyle at home because of my trainee
parents to the Western Canadian identity
I explore every day whether it be at
work or at school so the conclusion of
my paper was a little contradictory I
examine the ways in which he performed
these identities based on his
backgrounds and his experiences but he
did so using a lot of stereotype
in his music videos themselves so take
for example the music video worst
behavior he explores a fully American
identity as it is based in Memphis where
his dad was born and he drops the you
from the spelling of the word behavior
to again exemplify his American identity
using new rags and chains to represent
his hip-hop and black identity and
started from the bottom though he
represents a purely Canadian identity
Torontonian to be exact
using the Toronto Parks and Recreation
sign at the beginning of the music video
the Toronto skyline and he represents
himself as a working-class member of
society working in a Shoppers Drug Mart
an hy fr for example he also represents
a different side of his experiences as a
Jewish member of society celebrating our
bar mitzvah celebrating Jewish
traditions themselves but then at the
end toasting with glasses of champagne
to his fellow high-class rap artists so
I wanted to really explore and
interrogate why he might have used
stereotypes but I was critical of this
he may be furthering the stairs
stereotypes of these communities but he
was also very aware of the platform in
which his music videos were disseminated
on YouTube to an international audience
so to be understood he used stereotypes
to align themselves with these
communities and in a way also gain more
visibility for these communities
themselves to an international audience
online so in exploring the study with
Drake and his hybridity I learned about
him and also learned about more about my
own hybridity itself
and when I reflected on the paper that I
created for my master&#39;s degree I
realized this paper encapsulate smyth
ability itself all of my interests and
my skills and my educational background
kind of looped into one whether that be
my interest in hip-hop and in Drake or
my academic background
I got a Bachelors of Arts degree with
the joint honours in fine arts and in
English from the University of Waterloo
so I analyzed music videos through the
visual and the linguistic aspects of the
music videos themselves from my Masters
of Arts degree at Laurier I continued to
explore music videos on an online
platform
and my current PhD studies in Western
University where I&#39;m in my second year I
began to explore the role of musical
artists and how they can affect society
today and I was really interested in
music videos the ways in which musical
artists kind of created their persona or
their star image through images sounds
lyrics I found that music videos
themselves are both a tool for
advertising and a vehicle for
communication Drake was strategic in
using music videos to describe his
hybrid identity he wanted to communicate
his experiences but he also uses this as
a marketing strategy to connect to many
different people in many communities and
build his fan base I was also interested
in hip-hop itself hip hop artists are
often challenged for being inauthentic
but they speak from a purse first-person
perspective as a the genre itself
creates a space for them to reflect on
their challenges and hardships and I was
interested in Drake because Drake became
the perfect case study for me to explore
what it was like to be biracial
binational of low class members society
a high class member of society and he&#39;s
Jewish music videos themselves became a
window into different cultures and
communities while exploring the music
artists Drake but it was really
important to me that it was a paper
written with academic rigor but it also
reached the everyday person who felt as
if they didn&#39;t belong or felt as if they
were isolated from the rest of their
communities they felt as if they
belonged to too many places at once so
what I did was I presented my paper at
multiple conferences across Canada and
gained the feedback I needed from
academics to strengthen my paper I was
lucky enough to get it published by
Simon Fraser University where I then
mean the credibility I needed to reach
out to many media outlets I reached out
to both academic and non-academic media
outlets alike and was lucky enough to
get it reviewed in the Toronto Star and
interview snowballed from there I was
interviewed in Toronto Star and I even
got to meet Ben Mulrooney who I have a
major crush on and I my interviews
ranged from CBC Radio 2
virgin radio asking me questions about
my academic methodology and who I want
to Drake to date next it was a great
combination of my academic scholarly
side and my fangirl side so I used my
own hybridity to carve out a future for
myself in an academic and non-academic
realm I currently am a 23 year old PhD
student at Western University and I
continue to explore musical artists as
entrepreneurs the ways in which they
affect our economy affect us culturally
through our language and I also am
exploring a non academic side where I am
pursuing a career as a strategic Account
Manager at I a nun and I currently am
exploring my interests in marketing and
communications on that now and academic
side so I challenge you to really
reflect on your own unique hybridity you
yourself have your own unique
experiences and skill sets so I want you
to take that those skillsets and those
experiences and carve out a future for
yourself whether that be in academia are
not within academia you see the world
through your own perspectives and I want
you to share that with other people I
want them to see the world through your
eyes thank you
[Applause]
