
[Applause]
good morning everyone it&#39;s indeed my
great pleasure and privilege to be here
what I am going to tell you about is a
little bit on one of the most beautiful
minds of the past century namely that of
Albert Einstein and his famous equation
is equal to MC square the manifestation
of that the consequences of that in the
year 1999 just when the century ended
the American Time magazine asked for
nominations for the person of the
century award and as you can imagine
there were hundreds of nominations made
and they had a tough time to decide on
the finalists there were three finalists
the first one was Franklin Roosevelt for
triumph or freedom over fascism and
communism about him Bill Clinton wrote
when our children&#39;s children read the
story of the 20th century they will see
that above all it is the story of
freedom strife the victory of democracy
were fascism of tolerance over prejudice
and they will see that the embodiment of
that triumph was President Franklin
Roosevelt and the second finalist was
our own Mahatma Gandhi as the embodiment
of human rights and his faith in
non-violence in the same issue of Time
magazine Johanna
McGarry wrote in an age of empire and
military might
Mahatma Gandhi proved that the powerless
set power and that force of arms would
not forever prevail against force of
spirit that is so important for all of
us our passionate commitment non-violent
activism willingness to accept
punishment for civil disobedience were
lessons that Mahatma Gandhi taught
Martin Luther King
learned them so did Nelson Mandela leash
valensa the unknown Chinese who defied
the tanks in 1989 and grandi is that
rare great man held in universal steam a
figure lifted from history to moral icon
but the person who was chosen as the
person of this century was Albert
Einstein about him
Frederick golden wrote Einstein was the
preeminent scientist in essentially
dominated by science the touchstones of
the era the atomic bomb the big bang
quantum physics and electronics all bear
his imprint he was the embodiment of
pure intellect he was unfathomably
profound the genius among geniuses who
discovered merely by thinking about it
that the universe was not a tragic scene
although he was really a genius among
geniuses he did very well in college but
he had great difficulty in finding a
teaching job in a school and therefore
after the large number of unsuccessful
it&#39;s a lesson for all of us that
failures do not matter we have to keep
trying and eventually in 1905 when
Einstein was 26 years old and while
working in total isolation not in a
university not in a research laboratory
but in the Swiss Patent Office all by
himself he published five outstanding
papers these five papers are often
referred to as the annus mirabilis
papers annus mirabilis are latin words
meaning miraculous here and there for
the year 1905 is known as Einsteins year
of miracles the Year 1666 was the year
of miracles for Isaac Newton when the
University of Cambridge closed down
because of the plague in the United
Kingdom and Newton was sent home and
there in total isolation he wrote down
the law
of motional of the planetary motion he
worked out a theory of app optics and
also he introduced the calculus in the
five papers that he published the first
one was on a new method for
determination of molecular dimensions
the size of water molecules for example
how big it is he gave a very beautiful
method for the determination of that
size in the second paper which was
revolutionary in nature he said
radiation that is light can be emitted
or absorbed only discrete amounts called
quanta packets of energy and the value
of that energy was proportional to the
frequency nu of the radiation that is
emitted and these quanta are now known
as photons this was a revolutionary
concept because at that point of time
Maxwell&#39;s electromagnetic wave theory
that light was a wave phenomena was very
well accepted and this eventually led to
what is known as the wave particle
duality and the development of quantum
theory quantum theory has been a
revolution in the in the past century
and that was introduced by by Albert
Einstein in the year 1905 and in the
third paper Albert Einstein gave a very
beautiful theory of Brownian motion
which involves the the movement of a big
particle by continuous collisions with
many smaller molecules of the gas the
smaller molecules in this video is shown
by tiny dots and a big particle like a
virus will make random movement and it
is this random movement of which he gave
a very beautiful theory in his fourth
paper he put forward the special theory
of relativity which implied that time is
not absolute if I go from here on a fast
aircraft and come back my watch will
show a slightly different time than
yours and in the v paper he introduced
the famous equation e is equal to MC
square
and this equation has become so famous
that many have put on their shirt many
have tattooed them on their back or
front so in the previous of the book
which has the title of E is equal to MC
square a biography of the world&#39;s most
famous equation david botanist the
author writes a few years ago i was
reading an interview with the actress
Cameron Diaz in a movie magazine at the
end the interviewer asked her if there
was anything she wanted to know and she
said she would like to know what E is
equal to MC square really means they
both laughed then Diaz mumbled that she
had meant it and then the interview
ended so if a beautiful actress like
Cameron Diaz wants to move what really
is equal to MC square means so I thought
people in at-large public at large would
be interested to know and that is the
purpose of this talk and this equation
implies the equivalence of mass and
energy and that mass can be converted to
energy and vice versa and the
manifestations of this beautiful
principle so let us consider two magnets
facing each other without having an
exact mass each having an exact mass of
one kilogram and when they attract and
get stuck together then their mass total
mass is slightly less and this we assume
let us suppose a loss of mass of about a
millionth of a gram and which is a
billionth of a kilogram then when the
two magnets joined together there is a
slight change in the mass and if I
multiply with the square of the velocity
of light which is 300 million meters per
second we find that in the process of
the two magnets hitting and ninety
million joules of energy will be
released and this energy will be
released in the form of heat because the
they will hit together with the
tremendous velocity
thus a loss of mass of a
one millionth of a gram will correspond
to a release of about 90 million joules
of energy on the other hand when the mic
two magnets are stuck together it will
require about 90 million joules of
energy which would be supplied by your
muscles to separate them and in the
process a tiny amount of mass will be
created so that if two magnets are stuck
together
a strongly bound system if you make it a
loosely bound system you&#39;ll have to do
work on it and when you do when you
supply energy a small amount of mass
gets created to give you an idea what
one Joule is a hundred watt bulb gives
out hundred joules of energy per second
now any atom consists of a tiny nucleus
which is at the center of the atom which
has occupies a very very small space and
which consists of neutrons and protons
held together by strong nuclear forces
in the drag Ram the lithium atom
consists of three electrons orbiting
around a nucleus which consists of three
protons and four neutrons so the
simplest nucleus is the dirt around
nucleus which consists of a proton and
neutron and stuck together and therefore
because there will be a certain amount
of energy that is required to separate
them if they are separated then that
will be more than the deuteron nucleus
itself and in the process in the so the
energy released when they get stuck
together is two point two three million
electron volts million electron volt is
an energy that nuclear physicists use
which is about one tenth of a billet
trillionth of one Jun so you will have
to supply a certain amount of energy to
make a tightly bound system like the
deuteron nucleus to go over to a loosely
bound system thereby creating a small
amount of mass and similarly if a
loosely bound system
goes over to a title mall system certain
amount of energy is released so you have
the famous fusion reaction in which you
have a deuteron nucleus which consists
of a proton and neutron and the tritium
nucleus which consists of one proton and
two neutrons they fuse together and this
fusion takes place at extremely high
temperature because these are both
positively charged particles they repel
and so they fuse together and to form a
neutron and an alpha particle in the
beginning you have three neutrons and
two protons and in the in the end you
also have three neutrons and two protons
except for the fact that the alpha
particle is very tightly bound and so
therefore therefore there is a loss in
mass and a considerable amount of energy
is emitted in the form of kinetic energy
motion energy associated with the alpha
particle and the neutron the binding
energy of the deuteron is 2.2 3mf of the
tritium is eight point four eight so the
total binding energy is ten point seven
million electron volts that is ten point
seven million electron volts will be
required to separate all the five
particles on the other hand the binding
energy of the alpha particle is very
large that is a very tightly bound
nucleus and in the process therefore
seventeen point six MeV of energy will
be released which is in the form of heat
so that if you have such reactions then
heat will be generated although the
number of neutrons and protons remain
the same such fusion reactions therefore
require very high temperature our Sun is
like a four hundred trillion trillion
watt light bulb
therefore it emits four hundred trillion
trillion joules of energy per second and
if we now use the equation we will find
that the mass that is continuously
getting converted to energy is four
billion kilograms per second so in one
second the Sun is losing mass of the
order of
four billion kilograms and so therefore
every year about 120,000 trillion
kilograms of mass is continuously
getting converted into energy this is a
huge amount of mass but the Sun is so
big that the fractional change is
extremely small so initially our Sun
this consists of hydrogen atoms and
which attracted each other
gravitational pull and as they collapsed
a loosely bound system went over to a
tightly bound system creating heat so it
became hot and it became so hot
that the fusion reaction started we are
at this moment about 4.5 billion years
and as we as the nuclear fuel inside the
Sun gets exhausted the gravity will not
be able to hold it together and it will
form a red giant in about five billion
years and will envelop the earth and
then astrophysicists tell us that in
another five billion years it will
collapse to form what is known as a
white dwarf star so in a later statement
explaining the ideas expressed by the
equation is equal to MC square
Einstein summarized these are nine
Stein&#39;s own words which you can see on
YouTube it&#39;s followed from the special
theory of relativity that mass and
energy are both but different
manifestations of the same thing as
somewhat unfamiliar conception for the
average mind furthermore the equation is
equal to MC square in which energy is
put equal to mass multiplied by the
square of the velocity of light shown
that very small amount of mass may be
converted into a very large amount of
energy and visa versa if we have
uncontrolled fusion reactions we have
what is known as the hydrogen bomb which
is threatening mankind today
on the other hand if we have controlled
fusion reactions we have what is known
as the fusion reactor which is the
future of energy generation process and
we have unlimited supply of fusion power
ahead of us right now extensive research
is going on in two different types of
fusion reactors one in which the fusion
system consists of powerful laser beams
a large number of laser beams light
beams are focused and and onto the
target and creating extremely high
temperature and generation of what is
known as fusion power this photograph is
the set up at the Lawrence Livermore
Laboratory in the United States which
can deliver more than 500 trillion watts
of peak power to the target and this is
the second the other device is known as
the Tomic tokamak which uses a powerful
magnetic field to confine a plasma in
the shape of a torus for producing
controlled thermonuclear fusion power in
fact as most of you would know that
India is a very active partner in that
and we hope I sincerely hope in my
lifetime I am able to see these fusion
reactors in operation so as bananas in
the same book on ease equal to MC square
writes it is as if when God created the
universe he had said I&#39;m going to put X
amount of energy in this universal mind
so when he created this universe he had
put a certain amount of energy into this
universe I will let stars grow and
explode
there will be fires explosion of
volcanoes despite all these variations
the total amount of energy will remain
the same so there will be continuous
transformation from energy to mass and
from mass to energy the amount I created
at the beginning will not change there
will not be one millionth part less than
what was there to start so with that I
end my lecture
thank you very much
