
[Music]
I have a four year old son and sadly he
didn&#39;t really get to meet any of my
grandparents and I wonder what would it
be like when he grows up if instead of
telling him about my grandmother
I could actually introduce him to some
digital version of her what if we were
to find out that she left messages for
him to be emailed to him on each of his
birthdays until he turns 50 sharing with
him her insight about life love
happiness what impact would that have on
our family
very interesting possibilities but I
want to start with reminding us how old
such concerns and fantasies actually are
those centered on communication
technologies have been associated with
death and this is due to how each
community each technology for
communication that emerged such as
photography Telegraph radio has
repeatedly triggered our ways of being
present and being absent in so doing
they&#39;ve also contributed to how we
negotiate our relationship with death
and the dead and that&#39;s because our
relationship with death and the dead is
so closely linked to notice of presence
and absence think about photography as
so many scholars have discussed
photography has been associated with
death since its inception this is mainly
due to that stillness that characterizes
it a person appearing on a photograph is
eternally motionless and soundless
that&#39;s infusing all photographs with
connotations of death
now these connotations of death are also
related to the very essence of the
photograph because think about what
photography does photography freezes a
fleeting moment in time it makes it
eternal thus making it both present and
absent at once this very CUTE photograph
of me blowing out the candles at my
fourth birthday party only exists
because I was actually there blowing out
those candles and someone was there with
me to take that photograph but at that
very instance as soon as that photograph
was taken that moment has ceased to
exist and so this photograph today is an
indication both of the
actual existence and life and presence
of that moment as well as disappearance
and its death and in fact early
practices of photography were dedicated
to memento mori photography is it the
photographing of individuals at their
deathbed and for many that occasion was
the first and less photographed they had
taken of them so each new technology for
communication has repeatedly triggered
our ways of being present and being
absent and with the emergence of
electronic media they also have
repeatedly triggered fantasies and
anxieties about the presence of the dead
in our lives and our possibility to
communicate with them and the Telegraph
makes a really interesting example for
that first using 1844 the Telegraph was
the first electronic medium to enable
instant communication at a distance can
you imagine just as we are today
enchanted by smartphones and tablets and
the internet people in the late 19th
century were enchanted by this new
technology but for the first time in the
history of humanity enabled to get
instant input about the thoughts ideas
experiences of someone who was
completely physically absent someone who
was far far away for the first time
- distant minds could communicate
instantly at a distance now as
historians have shown this idea this
possibility to communicate at a distance
was a historical inspiration to the
movement of modern spiritualism which
emerged at around the same time
spiritualist for drawing a parallel
between the technology and the logic
behind the Telegraph so gesture the
Telegraph could provide a channel to
communicate with the absent minds of
those living spiritualist believed that
spiritualist mediums could provide a
channel to instantly communicate with
the mind the absent minds of those
deceased and many scientists were
inspired both by the technology of the
Telegraph as well as my spiritual
disbelief joined modern spiritualism and
tried to build the machine that would
enable to communicate with the world of
the dead now later electronic media as
well have again challenged and and
facilitated additional ways for being
present
and absent and have also triggered their
own versions of such fantasies and
anxieties about communicating with the
dead with the technology of the time and
digital media make no exception so with
digital media we&#39;ve also established
additional ways of being present and
being absent and in recent years there
is growing interest both academically
and popular growing interest in how
digital media is being incorporated by
individuals in their relationship with
death and the dead and the possibility
that we could use digital media to
interact with deceased loved ones has
inspired our collective imagination and
this is best seen in popular TV dramas
and big-budget movies that we&#39;ve all
seen that have brought this idea to life
for example a famous movie from 2014
depicts a scientist who researchers are
researchers artificial intelligence
sadly he&#39;s poisoned
so naturally his colleagues upload his
mind onto a computer and then after he
dies they are able to bring him back to
life digitally I won&#39;t tell you how it
ends but it is a dystopian science
fiction movie so we can imagine that
things go very very wrong now what if I
told you that this technology already
exists what if I told you that when you
go home today you actually can start
uploading your mind onto a computer and
start planning how you want to be
present online and active online after
you die so this unease of refilling that
some of the sounds that I&#39;m hearing is
why although science fiction is
important and useful in inspiring us and
in gaining an entry point to the popular
imagination we also need social science
because the thing is the technology in
real life is hardly ever all wonderful
or all terrible and as social scientists
have shown we know that technology is
not something that happens to a society
but something that is constructed within
it and technological innovation is
shaped both by science and society and
therefore we carry the values ideas and
ideologies of the
so with social science we&#39;d be able to
grasp the nuanced and exciting variety
of the technologies actually out there
and to gain an understanding of how
individuals are actually using and
experiencing these technologies so now
it&#39;s probably a good time to give you a
few examples so just to make sure you&#39;re
not affiliated with any of the websites
these are some of the websites that I&#39;m
researching and they offer different
ways and different services throughout
for her for planning your online
postmortem presence for instance life
not is a very interesting platform that
uses artificial intelligence they
experiment with and explore the
possibility of uploading your mind onto
a computer so once you go on the life
not website you open a profile and then
you can start working on what they call
a mind file and then they create a
digital version of you which is kind of
like a chatbot and then the more
information you give to it and the more
you train that chatbot with examples to
his answers that you might give to
questions the better will it represent
the likeness of you and then interact on
your behalf now or in perpetuity another
kind of service is services that are
based on pre creating messages either
using photo or text or video and then
scheduling a time after your death in
which you would like this message to be
sent to specific recipients so if
there&#39;s a special occasion that is
important to you into the other person
like a birthday or some other event so
that social for instance is such a
service and that social enables you to
create messages there are later posted
to Facebook profiles and Twitter
accounts of people that you specify so
if you have this really funny photograph
of you and a friend then you can choose
a date in which you want to send this
photograph to your friends Facebook and
then maybe on her birthday at some point
after your die she will get that
photograph and remember how special that
moment that you shared was now speaking
to one of the participants in my
research he used one of these services
and he created several messages video
messages for his loved ones and I asked
him about that experience
and he said that that moment of creating
those messages was really intense
positive and meaningful experience
he said that moment after you&#39;ve decided
who you want to leave messages do and
after you&#39;ve considered your every
single word and you chose the right time
of day and you chose the room in which
it freaked up feel comfortable to do it
and then you sit down and and you say
all those things was such a unique and
special experience and moreover he said
recording those messages had an impact
on his relationship with those people
afterwards so he felt that he was seeing
people in a different light and this was
very interesting and very inspiring to
me because it was so different from how
people usually react when I tell them
about my research people really think
it&#39;s creepy and one of the reasons why
many of us I think many of us find it
creepy when we first hear about these
services is related to the contradiction
between how the dead would be present
online through the services and the
social contract construction of death
during modernity so to put it simply
sending emails posting on Facebook
Twitter on Twitter is probably one of
the last things that we expect dead
people to be doing but moreover sending
emails posting on Facebook and Twitter
on Twitter is what we do and if you
think about it there is very little to
distinguish between a Facebook post or a
message that is created but by someone
alive or someone deceased and if you
think about how we are present online
will already have this experience of
being continually present continuously
present while being absent and
potentially by using these services the
dead could be present online in the same
spaces that we are using in our everyday
without being in any way distinct or
separated and this is what contradicts a
social construction of death during
modernity because in recent decades
Western societies have established
practices that were dedicated to
separating and excluding death and the
dead from everyday life places such as a
cemetery were
to contain and limit the time space and
form of the presence of the dead in our
life and potentially by using these
services that dead could challenge those
those practices of distinguishing and
separating the dead from everyday life
and this is what causes that creepiness
this inability to distinguish which is
something that is created but by someone
alive and something created by someone
who is dead and this return of the
familiar to where it&#39;s not expected to
where it shouldn&#39;t be that causes this
unease and perhaps anxiety but the thing
is that we&#39;re already dealing with
challenge with this challenge today
because already people who are dying are
living their digital remains behind them
for us to interact with each one of us
has a digital footprint which is the
accumulation of our online activity that
remains out there for people to see for
people to interact with and that uncanny
encounter with the digital remains of
someone was passed away it&#39;s becoming a
very common experience how many of you
here today have had the experience of
coming across a Facebook profile of
someone you know who has passed away or
a Twitter account quite a few yeah more
than I thought so if this is the case it
might be worth thinking about how we
want to manage this challenge now many
of us might feel more comfortable with
contributing to and engaging with
services that enable you to completely
delete your online identity after you
die to its complete annihilation
but some of us might also be curious and
interested in in reflecting and thinking
about the possibilities of controlling
and managing how you do want to be
present and active online after you die
and that there are many questions and
many possibilities that we can think
about so going back to where I started
what would it be like if we could
introduce people in our lives to
deceased loved ones who have passed away
but mattered greatly to us or how about
other applications could this be a
therapeutic tool could individuals
dealing with their end-of-life find some
kind of
comfort or reassurance knowing that
they&#39;re going to be there digitally for
their loved ones and that they&#39;re not
going to leave anything unsaid
how about education maybe our
great-great-great grandchildren
during their history classes could
interview a digital Barack Obama about
his experience as the president of the
United States will having deceased
individuals interacting with us through
online communication have an impact on
how we deal with and think about our
very own mortality will it have an
impact on how we think about and how we
experience online communication so as
these new technologies are still
emerging we all have the opportunity to
be part of how their shapes and although
they&#39;re new we&#39;d actually be engaging
with ideas that are as old at least as
photography and who knows perhaps by the
time my son is old enough to understand
and use these technologies communicating
to a deceased person online would be as
everyday and common as open a family
photo album thank you
[Applause]
