
last summer I read a blog post entitled
the invisible latina intellectual
written by dr. Brazil Acosta in it she
describes an experience she commonly has
walking across the university campus
where she teaches where she is often
mistaken for a student in spite of the
fact that she is a PhD grain and in her
40s as a Latina professor who is also in
her 40s in green I had this aha moment
when someone describes an experience
that you thought was just your own like
a Costa I do not see this as a
compliment instead I see it as a subtle
affirmation of what I often feel the
impostor syndrome that noise buzzing in
the back of my head always saying you
don&#39;t belong here
masked in a compliment about youth is an
assumption about what a professor looks
like and it&#39;s not a latina it&#39;s not me
as a scholar of religion I spent the
majority of my life trying to tell the
stories of Latin American Caribbean and
Latina women I want to talk to you about
our intellectual foremothers but I also
want you to think about the everyday
knowledge of our way less RTS and ARP
adem√°s those wise latina as once
described by Justice Sonia Sotomayor
when I was a college student I never
questioned the fact that I never read
any latina or Latin American women
authors how can you miss something that
you don&#39;t know exists I never had a
Latina or Latino professor because at my
university the people that look like me
were most likely cleaning the university
classrooms instead of standing in front
of them and so I was fortunate enough to
stick to stumble into classes that told
me the history and the stories that I
always knew existed and so in my time
with you today I
I don&#39;t want to share with you a few of
them lettuce that are part of my
intellectual autobiography I also want
to argue that they should be part of
yours
so Fontaine esta Loco deuce is a 17th
century Mexican nun and she&#39;s considered
one of the greatest figures in Spanish
colonial letters she wrote poetry plays
devotional writings and prose in spite
of the fact that she spent the majority
of her life
hoisted in a convent she actually had
international fame during her lifetime
this recognition led to the scrutiny of
church authorities who felt it was
inappropriate for a woman to get so much
attention so Juana at the end of her
life is eventually silenced by the
Catholic Church she is forced to sell
all her books and to stop writing
because she dared to write theology she
dared to write about God in an era where
that was exclusively for men one of
slurp Ana&#39;s last writings is entitled
lot of Swiss that I sort of feel out
there known as the response in English
in it sorta wanna weave Scripture
philosophy theology and litanies of
women to justify women&#39;s right to
education she says that her intellect is
a gift of God and not a curse in the
response she describes a time when the
Inquisition forbade her from reading for
three months however they could not shut
down her mind
instead he its stead of studying texts
she studied the world around her what
did sorta wanna study
she studied everyday life observations
of the convents dormitories led to
lessons on geometry observing two girls
playing tops led to experiments with
flour and other experiments in the
kitchen she found cooking with eggs had
excellent results these experiments lead
her to say what do women know besides
philosophies of the
sorta wanna is sarcastically challenging
the assumption that the gender coded
spaces of the domestic sphere are empty
of intellectual value that quote is
followed by probably my favorite
statement in sorta Juana&#39;s corpus when
she writes had Aristotle cooked he would
have written a great deal more that last
sentence makes me think about my mother
it also makes me think about my
grandmother my aunts my cousin&#39;s all
those women in my family that kept us
together and often go unrecognized
growing up I didn&#39;t think I had any role
models
I had one anti role model my mother my
house was a typical Cuban patriarchy
where it was a hierarchy with my father
on the top and my mother at the bottom
he ruled the home and so I saw my mother
as weak and so it was not my mother who
I wanted to be like I didn&#39;t want to be
like her at all instead it was my father
who I emulated whose praise I always saw
my father had a library in his study
that contained books that covered Cuban
history art culture you name it as a
child one set of books particularly
caught my eye the writings of Lydia
Cabrera now it could be their topic
which was Afro Cuban religions or it
could be because they were one of the
only books written by women but I used
to stump through those books as a child
and read the different passages and look
at the photos decades later as a scholar
of afro-cuban religion I rien countered
gaveta I learned that when she died she
left her archives to the University of
Miami where I teach and one day as i sat
in the cubed Heritage Collection looking
at her archives and trying to enter in
to the world of Cabrera my interest was
cemented I was looking at a folder of
clippings when she was given an award by
the University of Miami and as I turned
to page I saw a photo of the ceremony
and sitting in the front row were my
parents the invitation was clear Lidia
Cabrera is an ethnographer an
anthropologist from the first half of
the 20th century and she has one of the
most substantial documentation of
afro-cuban religions you cannot
understand afro-cuban religion or Cuban
culture as a whole without studying her
similar to sort Juana she is self-taught
also similar to sorta Juana she is often
marginalized by the Academy and it is
from Cabrera that I learned that Cuba
was as she described it permeated with
African influences I realized that while
my parents had raised me to love and be
proud of everything Cuban what they
meant was what was white Cuban and so
what Solana taught me about gender GABA
Dada
taught me about race those women also
forced me to confront the patriarchy in
my background I called myself a feminist
yet I still saw my mother as an antihero
and I wish I could tell you that I came
to that realization sooner but it was
after her mine had been ravaged by
Alzheimer&#39;s for years that I came to
realize that I did have a role model
growing up and she was my mother I also
realized that I had other latina and
other Latin American women as role
models some I knew in my life
others I met in books some were
historical like sorta Juana and Cabrera
and some emerge from the imagination of
writers like Sandra Cisneros Julio
Alvarez and Cristina Garcia
and you may think you need to be a
Latina to get their work but you don&#39;t
no one ever told me I had to be British
to read Shakespeare Greek to read Plato
mail to understand Hemingway those
writers exist in a universal bubble that
is stripped of their gender their race
and their culture and maybe if we
stopped labeling writers that are women
as women writers or authors that are
african-american as black writers and
just see them as writers and authors
then we would be exposed to the
complexity the diversity and the
richness of our intellectual heritage we
would see the everyday wisdom of our
mothers and our grandmothers and we
would start to realize that people who
look like me
our professors - thank you
