
music will make you smarter happier and
more productive at any age imagine if
you&#39;re doing a competition of some sort
and you&#39;re really nervous try listening
to some music this wise suggests this is
because music is sitting amazing
inspired mind cleaning stress relieving
and just uh music also affects the brain
in many different positive ways music is
a very fantastic brain exercise that
activates almost our right side of our
brain is reviewing and emotions and
knowledge when we listen to music its
processed in so many different areas of
all your brains and the music you choose
to listen to and predict your
personality raise your hand to break it
down researchers have found that
sometimes people have some of these
personality traits for example people
are a fan of blues music might be
creative outgoing gentle and iyz country
and western fans could be hardworking
and could be outgoing rap fans might
have confidence and could be help going
obviously these aren&#39;t the only
indicators of your personality if you
thought that was interesting lately
neuroscientists have made huge
breakthroughs in understanding how our
brains work they monitor brains in
real-time with brain scanners when the
participants listen to music multiple
areas of their brains were lighting up
all at once as they processed the sound
in doing this they were breaking down
sounds like melody and rhythm while
listening to the song as a whole song
this gave us a lot of information on how
listening to music affects our brains
but when scientists observed people not
just listening to music but playing a
musical instrument
noticed it engaged almost every area of
the brain at once especially the
auditory visual and motor parts of the
brain music makes a bridge between the
right and left side hemispheres so all
parts of our brain work together to
expand our abilities playing a musical
instrument like me I play percussion and
violin does even more for our brains
than just listening to music it can help
you with time management organizational
skills boost your team skills help you
stick with things when they are hard and
it can even improve your math reading
and comprehension skills have you
learned more about music and how it
affects us well if you have or if you
haven&#39;t just don&#39;t forget Frederick
Nietzsche says life would be a mistake
without music
[Applause]
