
you
you
human race is funny the first guy who
told us about planetary motion we just
persecuted him and the one person who
gave us computing that we so gleefully
used today was pushed to his death and
funniest of all we&#39;ve been horribly
wrong in the first round of
globalisation causing the extinction of
all our hominin cousins like Denisovans
Neanderthals etc just to ensure our
survival this does not sound funny
anymore now we&#39;re in the second round of
globalisation let&#39;s get it right this
time but the question is can we be
together and be different at the same
time well that is what globalisation is
and yes we can simply by being aware of
where we come from
encouraging bold thinking and preserving
what we have firstly we should learn
from our past we&#39;re all from the same
family the same mother mother Lucy who
was the first Homo Sapien which is a
good reason to have unity but we need to
understand why we are all one because we
were xenophobic afraid to be
heterogeneous and thought that the only
way to survive was to kill the others
now if this continues then after a
thousand years only a section of us will
survive
imagine a completely homogeneous
populace having the same skin color same
religion and speaking the same language
we don&#39;t want that to happen
let us not ignore someone because of
their culture all of us do not need to
be the same but accept that their
similarities are stronger than our
differences secondly human beings are
complete imbeciles if their thinking
abilities are taken away still it is
interesting that in all our institutions
general education
culture politics we often discourage
questioning and critical thinking there
will not be any bold thinkers if
everyone thinks the same let slip back
into the past gali leo was punished for
sinking ball just because the rest of us
were lacking imagination euclid gave us
the basics of geometry in 300 BC and it
took us 20 100 more years to tell
Euclidean geometry from elliptical
geometry without which by the way we
would not even have the luxury of using
GPS both thinking is so difficult and
rare to come by and we are bent on
wiping it off the moment we see it not
srate instead and think of the
scientific giants who shared their
knowledge thanks to Newton&#39;s laws we
have the luxury of cars and aeroplanes
if not for grandmas sharing we would not
even have our iPhones and iPads but they
never said I will shred this only with
my community and my country so encourage
both syncing and share wisdom for the
common good the comedy of human errors
does not stop here we have been gifted
with miraculous constants of nature the
truth of the earth is 23.5 degrees a
little more or less we would be freezing
or burning and would be extinct the
gravitational pull of the earth a little
more or less collapse or flare it into
the space and the amount of oxygen on
earth if it is a tad bit more inferno
burn no wonder professor Einstein said
God does not play dice but now V like
unruly children are intent on spoiling
this delicate balance with our mischief
such as pollution besides our ancestors
gave us various cultures and
civilizations that took thousands of
years to build and contributes
contributions from millions of people
whereas destroying one would take very
little time where are my inca friends
the Aztecs the Red Indians why are they
lost you are answerable to me as a child
I do not want to be in the same position
for our future children so we need to
think wider than our culture&#39;s and
preserve what is gifted so where does
all this leave us
we should retain diversity while having
unity that&#39;s right
diversity in unity not just a
homogeneous mass that looks and feels
the same and that does not think I have
friends from five different religions
speaking sixteen different languages and
I have seen all of them celebrate
everything joyfully it is nice to be a
child as we children have mastered the
art of diversity in unity and I would
demand or at all adults to do so as well
my little experiences cultures should
converse in order to conserve and that&#39;s
an idea worth spreading thank you
[Applause]
