
the concept of women&#39;s rights is not new
but for me it was not until last year
that I began to realize how disparity
between the sexes in our culture
negatively impacted my quality of life I
realized that I could not recall a time
when I had felt as though I&#39;d lived
without an understanding that I could be
the subject of oppressive behavior
because of my gender and honestly the
realization was shocking to me I had
considered myself to be a strong and
independent woman from a long line of
strong independent women my
great-grandmother was a suffragette my
grandparents divorced in the late 50s
and my grandmother went on to become an
accomplished marketer I was raised by a
single mother I myself am a veteran how
could I have not had a voice when it
mattered and how could I now honor what
had been done before me to allow me to
live as freely as I do as a woman today
as I sorted through my life experiences
I had two realizations I consistently
had not had a voice against these
oppressive behaviors when I should have
so I should find my voice to begin
creating change in my life and the lives
around me and to have equal rights both
women and men need to be treated with
the same deference both sexes have their
strengths and vulnerabilities physically
but we are as a whole intellectually and
emotionally equals and should be treated
as such women should not be ignored or
dismissed we should not have to stay
quiet so as to not make waves woman&#39;s
ability to reproduce leaves us
vulnerable in countless ways through our
ability to have children through sexual
advances pregnancy childbirth and the
responsibilities of parenting but women
are humans not objects although I had
found my own voice and defined what
equal rights meant to me I quickly
identify challenges to creating
meaningful change in the area of women&#39;s
rights the concept of when
rights encompasses a diverse spectrum of
issues with mostly polarized
perspectives I have shared what women&#39;s
rights means to me
but definitions of women&#39;s rights are as
diverse as we are individuals however
our personal definitions are not the
only hurdle as I do have deeper into the
issue it became apparent that how an
individual defines rights is critical to
their perspective today my favorite
definition of rights is found on
Wikipedia citing Stanford encyclopedia
of philosophy
rights are legal social or ethical
principles of freedom or entitlement
that is rights are the fundamental
normative rules about what is allowed of
people or owed to people according to
some legal system social convention or
ethical theory legal social and ethical
rights that is a lot it is no wonder
issues of rights are so challenging to
reconcile for me legal rights are the
most easily defined of the three most
easily understood and resolved ethical
rights while less straightforward are
relatively consistent from perspective
to perspective in Western culture it is
in social convention where I think
things become very unclear and where
most of the conflict arises social
convention has a different standard from
area to area and group to group but if
an issue that needs to be resolved deals
with social convention can we simply
tell people that they need to change how
do we approach that and then do we just
wait for the change to happen based on
my experience as a parent and in the
field of conflict resolution I know that
telling people what to do and how to do
it is not the most effective way to
manifest behavioral changes instead the
best path forward would be to model the
behavior that you would like to see but
what to model and isn&#39;t modeling
behavior a lot easier said than done
as I consider this challenge I realized
that this Lu
may be found in the conflict resolution
principle that meaningful change cannot
occur if any voice goes unheard if we
all take the opportunity to listen share
and discuss ideas to consider all
perspectives we could make change happen
if we begin to have those hard
conversations and become solution as
opposed to outcome oriented complex
issues such as women&#39;s rights can be
resolved because to listen and to be
heard are powerful tools in healing
conflict it is through open dialogue
that resolution can occur by sharing
openly and seeking to understand
seemingly incompatible differences
become less conflicted as emotional ties
to an outcome begin to relax I believe
that we have come too far to settle for
anything less than equal legal social
and ethical rights almost exactly a year
ago on Veterans Day in 2016 I decided to
use my voice through art as a way of
reaching a larger group than I could
enter personally the conceptual art
project is entitled women rising now and
is promised upon the idea that
meaningful change cannot occur if any
voice goes unheard it is collaborative
nonpartisan and a response to the social
divides that impact the rights of women
the goal is to create an opportunity for
others to explore the complex issues of
women&#39;s rights and to consider how each
could be addressed and resolved because
the concept of women&#39;s rights is not new
and although women and men have
different strengths and vulnerabilities
physically we are as a whole
intellectually and emotionally equals
and should be treated as such we all
have a responsibility to listen have a
voice and to challenge ourselves and
others to begin to think differently
when wanting to create change on areas
that are is conflicted and complex as
women&#39;s rights
how does disparity between the sexes
impact your quality of life can you
create meaningful change for the rights
of women through dialogue as you leave
here today consider your experiences go
out and have those hard conversations to
learn what others think and why find
opportunities to have a voice without
promoting a specific agenda ask
questions listen seek to understand and
share respectfully or maybe it is not a
conversation in the traditional sense
like my art project
how can you stimulate dialogue and
therefore promote meaningful change for
the rights of women with your voice
[Applause]
