
good morning today what is a pleasure to
be here today and my the topic of my
telex is about what to do with small
satellite in large quantities you may
have heard in later years that satellite
are becoming smaller and people are took
about a thousand of them in
constellation in space what is going on
why this is happening and most important
what can you do with the new idea so a
brief history of Technology over the
last sixty years so brief history of
computer in 1946 the ENIAC was large as
this room and was making simple
computation addition division
multiplication then we had the PDP and
box you don&#39;t know what they are because
I was working with them you were not yet
born and then we had a portable computer
Nitori a desktop computer on on on a
table then yet the portable computer and
then in the coming years every year
there is a reduction by a factor which
diminish the volume the power and
increase the computing power over the
next last 70 years something incredible
as a primitive computer everything gets
smaller and more powerful the cellular
phone this happening many technologies
cell phone in 1973 this large unit was
the first wireless phone then the time
went on and today the phone are very
small very powerful the size of the
phone is defined by the size of your
hand you cannot make phone much more
than that because you don&#39;t know how to
touch them they could be much much
smaller of the same power they can do
many thing you portable phone in your
pocket can do something which was
totally impossible to think every a
decade ago somebody says that the
current cell phone are more power than
the Apollo program altogether
the idea of the comparison in computing
power so satellites satellites the
technology started about sixty years ago
the first Putin acre and today they can
be large very large telecommunication
satellite in geosynchronous orbit the
one would give us television and
Internet and telecommunication on
digital scale very large could wait five
six seven up to eight tons thousands of
kilograms and takes many years to be
built and hundreds of millions of euro
or dollars to be conceived and deployed
and built but today satellite can also
be very small because the same
technology development which happened
for computer and for cell phone and for
many other valuable technologies is
happening also obviously on satellite
because everything can be smaller the
same power even increased power and with
a decrease in cost which is tremendous
so CubeSat what is a CubeSat is
definition of a dimension 10 by 10 by 10
centimeter more or less this is a basic
CubeSat this is a 1 unit 2 unit is 20 by
10 by 10 3 units 16 is 60 by 10 by 10 so
CubeSat are becoming today like the
personal computer became for the space
industry 44 day for the earth by the
electronic into the consumer industry
but this is happening in space so the
question is what can you do with those
small gadget in space which can be built
for a fraction of the cost of the last
satellite but have a power which is
comparable the current technology in
electronics in 2011 seven kids youngster
like you dropout school Silicon Valley
engineers founded a company in a garage
in Silicon Valley of course was
planetlab and the head area let&#39;s do it
let
build small satellite to look to the
earth satellite obviously can take
beautiful images of the earth beautiful
picture let&#39;s do it let bill satellites
find a clever way to do them cheap and a
clever way to put them in space and take
images of that brilliant idea they work
together they started that and a few
years after in 2014 three to four years
after they managed to launch 28 of those
satellite called dos bird which is
looking from the from the top from the
ISS the International Space Station the
International Space Station is a bright
idea in the bright idea because using
the International Space Station to
lounge satellite is not exactly the way
it was conceived the space station is a
home for astronaut operating space to
make large experiment to do a lot of
things about floating around in
microgravity it was not the right place
to land thing but somebody realized
another group of kids start a new
company which was exactly dealing with
NASA a special agreement to fund a way
to launch small satellite for the
International Space Station and they did
that and the two together so this is one
of those satellite the door you can see
systems you can have in your hand must
be a six unit or a four unit length long
satellite you can figure out the power
panels the cameras some stabilization
and
[Music]
this is how the satellite allows on the
station
and you know how they are bouncer there
is a spring a mechanical spring which is
inside these
the colonel and they are pushed out two
by two
and orbiting around they against the
motion of the space station to be below
at a lower orbit so they can operate at
about 400 kilometer ahead and what you
do with that you do a constellation
which after this went first twenty eight
went up to 77 aligned and one after each
other or look into down to the earth
passing since the to the full orbit is
one 1/2 hour and you have about hundred
of them every nine minutes or so sorry
every every 90 second or also few minute
or so you can even you those satellite
coming over the same location while the
earth is turning you can make precision
frequent observation of all kind of
places on the earth and this is can be
on the daily basis this is new because
satellite we shall serve the earth are
typically one which is coming over a
single location typically once a day but
is focusing on a single spot so the real
repetition of a satellite to take a
picture of the santana building is
typically 16 days because the next time
is passing as a slightly different
latitude and longitude and then it takes
a different images unless you can point
focusing on the same spot if it is not
just scanning is passing over the same
location typically once every two weeks
this every day
make a complete image of the earth and
in with the repetition time which is few
minutes what you do with that Oh many
many things you have to just crack your
head and find what you can do with that
for instance if you take picture of a
refinery oil refinery gas rafi gas
storage you know these are storage tanks
you can see their shadows
the shadows is given by the light
impinging on these storage vessels at
the given time of the day in the pen of
the ID of the top of the vessel
if you pass with a satellite at the same
day every day and you count the shape
the area and the shape of those shadows
you can say which one is going down by
how much which one is going up which has
the reservoir and then you call the
stock market and you plan to invest in
the future this is a highly economical
information and it&#39;s based on the fact
you can only daily base take a picture
of all the tanks storage in United
States as an example or in China and
make your model find the information and
use it on a stock market and indeed this
is what another company digital globe is
doing this is a 2016 announcement of
that who&#39;s using the output in 6000
industrial plant in China the result in
that I get collected integrated in the
manufacturing forecast which Bloomberg
is providing to these terminals great
this can only be done with a lot of
observation taking place on regular days
over all the world in this particular
case on China was not possible to do
with one single satellite passing over a
certain location 16 days but you can do
many many many things for instance you
can see how a refugee camp in Uganda is
developing over weeks is impressive this
is taking the background is changing
because the season is changing but you
can see the amount of tents which have
been built over a few weeks of time and
this is very important to international
relief agencies because sometime those
camps since the world is very large you
don&#39;t know even know about that and
taking picture all the earth you can
learn about changing patterns of many
kinds not only oil type storage tanks
but also people refugees escaping from
difficult situation or you can spot
rapid deforestation deforestation
pattern in the Bolivian forest
rainforest this happened over a few
weeks and you see how quickly this
particular spot has been eradicated from
all the trees to create some field for
agriculture or whatever again because
you&#39;re measuring continually in this
hidden spot on the Amazonian forest the
changes day by day and that is clearly
visible or you can monitor this is over
a longer time how a certain city is
growing in the meantime how the
reservoir of water are going down this
is more like about monitoring mega
cities and resources of water meaning
there are plenty of things that you can
do to the extent you can regularly visit
all over the earth and without having
predetermined objective just monitoring
the changes over and over and over and
many of that has a economical value a
refugee type of value protection
intervention value you ban planning and
so on and so on and so on
this is a the desert being populated by
irrigation field you know these circles
each of them is water being food to grow
in the desert some agricultural field
and also in this case you can see which
by weeks how things are developing they
are also very beautiful geometrically
but it means this is taking place a very
large change in the way this particular
spot of the earth is being used but you
can see the most incredible things which
never before have been observed you see
this is a river you can see it is
changing flawed but this one is a new
River being created over days
this new river is finding out staff was
not there before and has been observed
starting and creating and burning and
eventually getting somewhere to to the
next river or to the sea these kind of
things also escape observation because
normally you don&#39;t have the capability
to do it in a random place of the world
at the right rate you can understand
what is going on in the future future is
today if you have those constellation of
many satellite what will you do
easy you go from Google Earth static
photographs typically few months old to
Google Earth dynamic the Lumiere version
of Google Earth will think to keep
moving you observe cars ships plumes of
industries you see the word are the size
and over the timescale that you need to
really understand about our life
observation of the earth today is about
weather chain very climate change
weather condition relatively large
structure which respond to the way earth
a develop but today we are getting down
to the scale of time or the scale of
size which is typical to the human
behavior and this has tremendous
economical implication you can do that
only if you take over and over and over
images and then interpolate that a new
create a meal a movie having the right
step in observation now this is maybe
the most successful story about plan a
lab by the way in 2014 after they
deployed the first 28 plus 50 dose they
go to the stock market which won the 20
million of dollar over over investors
money so I mean it was a great success
but these people which are not anymore
seven but they have probably seven
hundred today and I keep going very
strong in interest in future almost a
small satellite a dog
about five kilograms five kilograms
three pcs in that they are so
inexpensive that you can net iteration
one after the other you build the first
one
you try it a small constellation you
understand something has to be improved
you throw it away you start from scratch
I was talking with one of the CEO of
this company it says look we are
building a 20 satellite a week to create
a constellation of 80 satellite take 4
week we don&#39;t start the construction
unless we have available a launcher
which can launch us because lounger is
the bottleneck today not a satellite
anymore so if you take 100 satellite at
5 kilograms it make 500 kilograms is a
small satellite by the standard of the
several towns one so even 100 or
satellite which is be logical
constellation today on the unknown sky
is a fraction of the weight of large
satellite and if you take the cost of
those units in the ten thousands of
euros if you multiply with an 100 still
EV a cheap amount of money would respect
the multi hundred million investment
which is needed for large satellite on
February 15 this year 2017 was a lounge
or a pls TV which is an Indian lounger
look at this one this one is called Dido
but the other is a second constellation
of Spacelab so they launched at another
85 or so and they replaced the previous
constellation with a new one and they
are now taking better observation with a
newer generation but in the same lounge
one of those la satellite this PSLV
lounge deploy an under-five satellite
about 85 for force planetlab
one this did Idol which I will talk in a
moment plus another 10 or so for other
customers in one single launcher 105
small satellite for different purposes
and one model constantly
but one of these is another application
which I found really remarkable Dido is
a three unit CubeSat so 30 by 10 by 10
centimeter which the first part carries
and control system power system
computing and a telecommunication but
the second two unit contain for chemical
laboratories biochemical laboratories I
don&#39;t know if here there are people
working in this field probably yes
because you do have this kind of studies
here so you know chemical laboratory
biochemical laboratory to build
pharmaceutical new molecules and to
study the performance how they can be
folded and and so on and so forth
and there is an understanding of the
fact that in absence of gravity meaning
in freefall where the gravity does not
play any role and there are no
convection activities during the
chemical reaction a cold part of the
liquid or the gas and the hot part of
the liquid or gas are the same weight
they stand still and there is no mixing
about different part so people believe
that with the absence of gravity certain
molecules can be built in space either
without defects crystals of complex
molecules without defects or folded in a
different way so typical biochemical
labs can be large but microelectronics
microbe mechanics micro detectors can
squeeze it down to a total size of about
20 centimeter of height 10 by 10 in
square and inside here you whatever you
need to do your biochemical experiment
but which is the advantage that you can
do from your desktop controlling
remotely what is happing up there on the
International Space Station
experiment we&#39;re done on Iraq which were
awaiting 120 kilograms with an astronaut
pushing the keyboard to do certain
sequence of things here everything is
creased down to within a small satellite
with scientists not astronaut working
students are working on their desktop to
repeat over and over different
experiment 200 experiment where an
International Space Station was doing a
few because of the complexity of the
cost so we believe that these will be
number one able to provide very precise
crystallization of complex protein and
different molecules without the defect
induced by the effect of the mixing you
to the heat differences on earth so this
is going to create a certain class of
new highly purified pharmaceutical but
even more fascinating from the point of
view of the implication is what about
the folding processes of certain type of
molecule typically later to the strength
during the DNA we&#39;re in a multiplication
you know that folding is a very complex
system understanding how Falls behavior
quite very powerful supercomputer but we
understand that is so critical about the
initial condition that if you change the
initial condition a significant manner
because gravity is gone folding can take
a different shape and the folding of a
large molecule as will be to do with
this capability to have a pharmaceutical
effects if you change the shape of the
molecule can be totally useless or maybe
can be very important for certain other
application and companies during the
pharmaceutical development are very much
interested to understand all the
possible folding of a given molecule to
patent it
so the I dough is already realizing now
studies of this kind for a number of
pharmaceutical laboratories or companies
which for the time being are studying
those the
affording situation patenting new
folding condition the only thing they
cannot do today is to bring back the
result because the ones the folding is
done is table but this is the future in
the future will have factories in space
which can do that on larger scale and
bring it back so this is just a
preparation for the next phase so these
are just two example which I hope they
made some sparks in your imagination but
the reality Manasa that I can accomplish
many different things and literally
there are many new possibilities and all
the sky is the limit this is a new tool
is which is less expensive can be
modified Tyler made because of as a
function of the need it can be redone
over and over and over and the scale of
small companies even universities is you
scale but the ideas are the most
important thing so if you look around
what can be done with this constellation
all small things
Oh many things one can key distribution
banks need to have ultra safe key
distribution system and as you know
through fiber optics you can have exceed
one and a kilometer and then you have to
regenerate the information the moment
you regenerate information you lose
safety because there is a point where
some electronics is doing certain
operation so a batch mode convenient to
send decrypted key to the satellite to
deploy the key to a network banks and
then using this key which has been
transferring say France channel you can
then start the transfer the big quantity
of data protected without a public key
be transferred example you can look to
many things on the ionosphere on the
atmosphere on the magnetosphere on the
same time on different location example
a meteorological satellite we base our
life on the prediction or material
satellite if I ask you how many they are
just a few six or seven large satellite
on geostationary orbit provide this
information to everybody you can ever
meet Roger a satellite now in dozens in
hundreds taking picture what more
precise on a different scale and this
will improve the quality the details of
the capability of predict the weather
you can find many possible activity and
what is important not each each of those
application is not multi-purpose is
focusing on something because the cost
is so small that you can focus on
tracking vehicle and forget about
agriculture or about desert
certification for getting out anything
else and and so on and so on and so on
again is tailor-made space application
so there is good idea
Sun the degree of technology some degree
investment but I see in the future we
see in the future
that mega constellation or constellation
was most satellite are going to change
the way we do space thank you so much
[Applause]
