
if anyone takes a life it is if he or
she takes the life of all mankind if
anyone saves a life it is as if he or
she saves the life of all mankind I was
born in the beautiful city of Kabul the
capital of Afghanistan when I was 2
years old due to the civil war and my
father being a government official my
family had no choice but to left
everything behind and save our lives we
my father my mother&#39;s with three sons
and three daughters struggle for more
than a decade as a refugee in Pakistan
desperately waited to go back to your
beloved country my brother and I had the
opportunity to go to school and complete
our education because we were refugee it
was not easy we had to pay a huge amount
of money just to attend and every day
our classmate bullied us they call us
Madera turning the world refugee into a
hateful insult our parents told us to
ignore them and focus on learning which
we did when j1g Gargash de was living in
Pakistan I was growing up with my family
in Kabul due to the civil war in regime
changes in Afghanistan our education
system destroyed one day we were sitting
in class and we heard gun fires and
realized the insurgents were attacking
the school luckily we survived but the
enemy burned everything the colorful
trees the chairs and tables and all our
books went up in flames I was seven
years old I had only known war I saw
people dying
I saw people dying family members
disappearing innocence being tortured
and killed in in some part of Kabul
warlords ask crowded crowded terrified
citizens to watch how a recently
decapitated body dance after foiling oil
was poured on it and they will play
soccer with their heads as long as I
live I will never forget that image
fearing for our lives my family decided
to leave Kabul and we moved to our home
province in the east
one night we heard a knock and before my
brother could open the door the
insurgents Bruceton to our house they
dragged my father and two brothers they
will return a week later with bruises
bites and other signs of sign of
tortures because of their work in the
government so my family decided to leave
Afghanistan and we also fled to Pakistan
and became refugees that was my
childhood
after a us-led invasion in 2001 we found
our opportunity to return to her
homeland country Afghanistan because I
had never seen our home province in
South my parents thought it will be good
to wizzard our extended family members
still living there since my parents were
always telling us how beautiful their
place of birth was the picture that I
had in my mind was not what I saw there
was no paved road no modern building no
green field nor were hospital or clean
water to drink for anyone our heart were
broken and our eyes were filled with
tears women&#39;s life were completely
controlled by men&#39;s their fathers their
husbands and their brothers made all the
decision for them young girls were
even not allowed to go outside there
were no school for them nor hospital or
any type of health care after a girl was
born she had no choice but to stay home
get married have children and died my
heart was broken and I knew that I had
to do something I had only two options
one to go back to Kabul and continue my
higher education or stay in my province
to hold the hand of those young helpless
girls and trapped it unhappy woman&#39;s
despite worrying about my security in
this very dangerous and conservative
part of Afghanistan my parents agreed
that I should stay to have a home school
for young girls of course it was not
easy to convince father that educating
your own daughter is in the mains best
interest I told them you must send your
own daughters to school so they can
become teachers the doctors and the
lawyers this province need to survive
after a while to get more support for my
home school I went to the local
governor&#39;s office to officially register
my school but my application was
rejected they told me to go back home
and mind my own business
that was a time when I realized that in
a country like Afghanistan nothing can
be changed without having political
power since both my parents were well
respected and I had the huge support of
young generation around me I decided to
run for Parliament is a first female
from my male controlled province after
five month or five month long dangerous
and serious campaign going door to door
was it in different district talking to
the people is a
for first time as a female carded I want
election and I become the youngest
member of parliament
during my time in Parliament I had the
wonderful opportunity to draft to draft
and vote for different laws on behalf of
Afghan women&#39;s and also attend and speak
in national and international
conferences to build more stronger
network for Afghan women&#39;s like hundreds
of thousands of Afghan families my
family also returned to Afghanistan in
2001 because of my English and computer
skills I got a job doing IT at the
presidential palace and later was
promoted to be a liaison between our
government and international embassies I
work closely with Excellency President
Hamid Karzai the US State Department the
US military to support the United State
mission in Afghanistan around this time
I met a beautiful young politician I
made sure I was the one to escort her to
all her meetings at the presidential
palace to get to know her better
after many conversations we realized
that we had the same vision for our
country so we decided to get married but
wait a minute was that easy for us to
tell our families it&#39;s unusual in
Afghanistan to marry someone from a
different tribe but we bought for
rule-breakers the right we got married
and continued our mission for a better
and sustainable nation during our time
in the government we built the very
first school for girls
the very first hospital for women in
south of Afghanistan by the support of
our international allies
even though I had the government
position but it was not easy to face
those warlords who taught discussing
anything to do with women life was a
complete waste of time to shut me up
they began making threats against me and
my family and we were in constant
dangerous I will survive several attack
including car bombs and an attempt of
kidnapping of my six-month-old son from
daycare it was all because we were
fighting for democracy threatening phone
calls in text messages became a regular
part of my morning as regular as a cup
of morning coffee here I would glance
down in read this is going to be your
last day
make sure say bye to your family or
cooperate or else I would leave for work
with this terrifying threats in my mind
thinking that this will be my last day
and I will be not able to see my lovely
family back it was during these
dangerous in uncertain days that my wife
and I learned of a plot of attacking the
US military and diplomatic officials we
had two choices say quite and let our
friends die or pick up the phone and
stop the plot I jeopardize I put my
family lives in jeopardy and called a
friend at the US Embassy and warned him
of the attack the plot was uncovered and
lives were saved and because of that
though our life was was even more
endangered a day later I called Gargash
to my wife and told her grab our
important documents we must leave I
don&#39;t think so we will be coming back
we had only a few hours to say bye to
our families especially to our mothers
imagine hugging your mom for the last
time and living for a unknown
destination and we became refugees again
after 14 hard months in Turkey selling
everything we had included our wedding
bands the United States of America
accepted us as a refugee and we become a
part of this great
when we first arrived in the United
States G suggested to go to Omaha
Nebraska where prey
we&#39;re president were Excellency
President Karzai had sent her in 2006 to
attend the class of course I looked up
on behind Google Maps and thought gee
come on it&#39;s in the middle of nowhere
but guess what I was wrong
after living in Maryland Virginia in
California I finally listened to my wife
and we moved to Omaha I now know it&#39;s in
the middle of everywhere and it&#39;s the
best place in the world
[Applause]
[Music]
we have faced many challenges to achieve
our goals of improving the life of
common people in Afghanistan we made a
difference now girls in my village
learned that that they can be a
representor and Parliament a teacher in
local school or nurse and doctors in the
hometown Hospital our life have been
marked by constant change from refugees
to a political power couple to a refugee
once again to all this change though one
thing has been true we never give up
never give up
