
in past millennia mankind has stared up
into the Stars and wondered what is out
there why are we here what does this
mean
Aristotle was one of the first to try
and imagine the early universe believing
the earth to be at its center and that
everything else revolved around it in a
set of giant glass spheres Nicholas
Copernicus challenged the Catholic
Church and tried to imagine the universe
as it was not as how others thought it
should be Galileo
stared up into the Stars and saw wonders
beyond his wildest imaginings myths
constellations science fiction
satellites these are all just ways that
mankind has tried to explain and
understand the universe around them and
more importantly what their role is
within the cosmos I believe that an
integral part of being human is the
desire to explore to range outwards and
find new lands new resources with new
places where we can settle and call home
this desire to explore has led us to
range from island to island from
continent to continent and now seems to
have run out of new places to discover
space with it&#39;s quite literally infinite
potential calls to us and seems like the
natural next step for our explorations
of course I can&#39;t just jump into a
teleporter and say Scotty beam me up and
away I go fighting Daleks are blowing up
the Death Star we need to have an
objective and I believe that a
reasonable objective for these next 100
years will be to begin shifting people
and industry into space to begin pushing
the boundaries of what is possible and a
key driver for that shift into space
will be our growing needs for energy now
if you take a look at this
you&#39;ll see that the world&#39;s energy
consumption is predicted to rise by a
rapid rate according to the US Energy
Information Administration by 2040 which
is only 23 years from now the world&#39;s
energy consumption is predicted to rise
by a whopping 50 percent half again of
what we are consuming today by the time
2040 comes around renewable energy
sources like solar power and wind power
are definitely going to be on our
shopping list and I believe that a key
way to reconcile our growing needs for
energy with our increasing desire to
explore space will be through something
known as space-based solar power which
will be the focus of this TED talk now
solar power is fairly straightforward
once you get down to the nuts and bolts
and it works the same way in space as it
does on earth light energy from the Sun
impacts the solar cells which contains
silicon metal these the silicon atoms
within the metal once exposed to light
energy release electrons the negative
charge carriers of the atom
there&#39;s something known as the
photoelectric effect these electrons
have connected to a circuit via a wire
can then be used to do useful work such
as lighting up a light bulb now on earth
we receive around 350 watts of light
energy per meter squared which is some
context saw enough energy to heat a
small bottle of water by a few degrees
in a few minutes in space we receive
four times that intensity of light which
means that if we place vast Space
Station&#39;s loaded with solar panels we
could generate huge quantities of
electricity by taking advantage of the
vast amount of energy streaming from the
Sun every second now here&#39;s where we
reach our first technical problem how do
we get that energy from space down to
earth we can&#39;t just connect the
satellite with the earth with a mile
long cable that would be impractical no
we need to think outside of the box and
people have kind of started to think
that something around the lines of
this is the solution although maybe this
is not the best way to convey that idea
I don&#39;t want to destroy the earth I want
to help save it I think this is a much
better yes yes a microwave so what do
microwaves have to do with this well a
microwave is simply a high power beam of
electromagnetic radiation and these high
power beams of electromagnetic radiation
can then transport a lot of energy very
efficiently when traveling through a
vacuum which is what space space is a
vacuum so the theory goes light energy
from the Sun impacts the solar panels
these solar panels convert that energy
into electricity through the
photoelectric effect and that
electricity is then beamed down to earth
through microwave lasers now this form
of energy generation has a vast range of
opportunities associated with it as well
as several key challenges and
considerations that we must address
let&#39;s start with some of the benefits
first this form of generation would have
an enormous positive environmental
impact as it would lead to the increased
consumption of renewable energy and the
decreased consumption of fossil fuels
which would have effects like reducing
pollution reducing acid rain and very
importantly positively contributing to
the solution for climate change as
renewable energies are near zero
emissions next we must consider the
energy the huge influx of energy that
this project would bring to its home
country would be a massive economic
boost as it would lead to increased jobs
increased manufacturing capabilities and
very importantly increased access to
energy hungry technologies such as
robotics finally this project would be a
peaceful way to begin discussing some of
the legal and political boundaries in
space for example a country&#39;s right to
build something in space a space station
a space hotel or even an international
treaty where countries of the world
agreed to take care of the wastes that
they generate in space satellites that
are no longer serving any purpose
however
several key challenges that we must also
not forget for a project of this scale
though I previously made a joke about
these stations being similar to the
Death Star super laser from Star Wars we
can&#39;t forget or ignore the possibility
of these stations being used as
satellite weapons microwave radiation is
extremely dangerous and aimed at a city
or a town these stations could cause a
massive amount of death and damages even
ignoring that the environmental
implications of these stations cannot be
ignored as if not properly planned out
or regulated these stations could cause
huge damage to plant and animal
populations worldwide next we must
consider the costs and resources of this
project the biggest cost in getting the
materials into space right now we&#39;re
building the materials on earth and
transporting them to space which is very
expensive in the future we would
probably have to consider getting the
materials from the moon from Mars even
the asteroid belt and transporting them
to earth which might be cheaper in the
long term but right now is practically
impossible
finally there are several political and
legal challenges and implications that
we must confront for example who would
own these stations would it be a
government a corporation if it is a
corporation should a profit be made from
this energy after all isn&#39;t space a free
resource open to all finally what are
the political and legal implications of
a country or a government or corporation
controlling and dominating an area of
space and denying others access to it
this could be very very dangerous
regardless of the answers of these
questions these stations would require
human technicians to maintain and repair
them as our energy needs would grow so -
with the human presence in space
eventually culminating in entire cities
orbiting the earth working full-time not
just to be an electricity down to earth
but to push the boundaries of what is
possible in space but as I said before
these missions are expensive and critics
ask
is it right to spend so much money and
so many resources on a project that
seems to have few visible benefits and
really ladies and gentlemen this isn&#39;t
just a question about space-based solar
power this is a question about space
exploration is it worth it and I say
that it is I say that it is worth it why
because when mankind goes into space we
on earth are inspired this picture was
taken by Apollo 17 astronauts on their
way to the moon and in the 1970s and
1980s it inspired environmental
movements worldwide whose efforts today
have culminated in a comprehensive
climate agreement where the governments
of the world have agreed to try and save
our fragile blue home the influence of
one photograph those emailer words
uttered by Neil Armstrong on the surface
of the Moon inspired a generation
worldwide to become teachers doctors
engineers lawyers mathematicians
physicists all captivated by the promise
the allure being something greater than
they already are
critics are right to question the costs
and benefits of these projects and I
would argue that there is a practical
and tangible benefit to what I am
proposing today greater and cheaper
access to clean electricity but critics
rarely consider the unexpected the
unintended consequences that come from
reaching for the stars because an
investment in space exploration is not
just a scientific pursuit but an
investment in the spirit the zeitgeist
of a generation the people inspired in
full wear in part by space have gone on
to make the world a better place we want
to go into
space not just because we want to make
your electricity bill cheaper or because
we want to collect some cool rocks but
because our hopes and our dreams urge us
to do so and so the next time ladies and
gentlemen someone asks you why should we
explore space just try and imagine that
sense of wonder our ancestors must have
felt when they first stared up into the
stars thank you
[Applause]
