
we in this theater share something
pretty epic in common having endured a
hair-raising hurricane season in
addition to a big storm surge hurricane
Irma dumped 12 inches of rain on
Jacksonville in one weekend and that was
on top of your rainiest summer in
recorded history yet even with our
flooded homes our downed trees now the
mold even with moccasins still swimming
through some of Florida subdivisions
that foot of rain paled to the more than
four feet that drowned Texas in
hurricane Harvey with more than 50
inches in a week Harvey shattered every
u.s. rainfall record for a single storm
so we in the media and meteorologists
like to call these storms beasts as if
they rose from the pages of a fairy tale
actually they rose from warm seawater
and as our oceans continued to heat up
along with the planet scientists worried
that climate change could be increasing
the risks of these kinds of storms so
not that we would see more storms the
problem is more intense ones and more
intense impacts such as these kinds of
rain events in his new film on the
climate crisis an inconvenient sequel Al
Gore calls these sorts of rains that
have drowned cities from Baton Rouge to
Bangladesh rain bombs so the reason
climate change is making rainfall more
severe is that a warmer atmosphere holds
more water so this makes sense right
this is not uncertain
science by any means it&#39;s clear in the
rainfall record now going back 50 years
but having spent many years of my life
researching the history of humanity and
rainfall I literally wrote the book on
rain I am here to tell you that the rain
is not a beast or balm nature and
climate are not what we have to fear so
today I&#39;m here to tell you another side
to the story of rain and to clear up
some misunderstandings
some of which may be coming back to
haunt us in an era of climate change but
the first missed understanding is very
small and this involves the shape of a
raindrop so from our earliest childhood
we imagined raindrops falling this way
right like a drip from the faucet but
this image is actually upside down in
reality raindrops fall like this their
tiny parachutes their tops rounded by
air pressure from below so rain has this
really unfair reputation right of making
the world dull and gray from the very
first rains that filled the oceans
tinting our planet blue the truth is
quite the opposite
rain gives life then blazes it with
color so the better the spring rains the
brighter the hills and valleys the
steadier summer rains fall on hardwood
trees the richer the reds and yellows of
fall we can even thank the rain for the
bluest blues in the sky as dust
pollution and other tiny particles build
up in the atmosphere our celestial
sphere grows paler and paler from blue
to milky white and it&#39;s a good rain that
washes that grit away sort of shining
the heavens to their blue Celeste best
so
dearth of rain means dearth of color dry
prairie dusty sand desert animals with
pale skin to reflect the sun&#39;s heat many
tropical rainforest creatures evolved
bright pigments so their kind could find
them in the rain
blurred jungle this is an African
butterfly called the squinting bush
brown when it emerges from the pupa and
dry times it&#39;s dull and puny but those
that emerge and rainy season are larger
eat more food have big beautiful eye
spots and they even get more sex it
turns out that we humans too are adapted
to rain
scientists linked the wrinkles that rise
on our fingers and toes after a good
soak to our ancestors need to grip in
wet rain forests our finger wrinkles are
essentially rain treads so to a
remarkable extent rain and often the
lack of rain has brought us together as
humans a widespread and lengthy drought
helped spur the earliest civilizations
as people had to come together to
irrigate and grow food in these four
great river valleys so rain and the lack
helped shape humans from the very
beginning and from the very beginning
humans wanted to shape the rain right to
control it in Mesopotamia one of the
very first gods known to have been
worshipped by humans was a deity of
storms and rain most religions came to
view rain as a gift from God
in Hinduism the beloved god Krishna is
blue to represent a rain storm his name
literally means dark as a storm cloud
source of life-giving water rain
is indeed a gift but whenever we viewed
rain weather climate as an enemy to
vanquish we often came to regret it in
medieval Europe the 1300s marked the
start of this incredible climate shift
to extreme weather including some of the
worst rains in a thousand years season
after season crops were destroyed
starvation set in empty bellies filled
with paranoia people began to believe
that witches were conjuring the storms
and this went on for a couple of
centuries there were actually thousands
of people tortured and even executed for
a crime on the books called weather
magic in Scotland King James himself
oversaw some of the most heinous torture
and executions he was paranoid that
witches were trying to kill him by storm
this 1591 news tract tells the story
from King James&#39;s point of view
proving if nothing else that fake news
has been around for many centuries so
this sort of delusional determination to
get the upper hand over nature repeats
throughout history in 19th century
America thousands of farmers and
families rushed west to the Great Plains
they were drawn by the Homestead Act but
also a bogus theory called rain follows
the plow boosters ignoring the dry
climate history or probably hiding the
dry climate history actually convinced
many people that the more people move to
the plains the more it would rain and
this was the propaganda that was seen in
magazines all over the country with with
rain and fat grapes and Kansas so in
le drought returned thousands of
families had to retreat back east those
who stayed to wait for rain went hungry
some starved to death and into this grim
situation came some of the most
audacious con men in American history
these were the traveling rain makers and
for a high price they would convince
farmers they even convinced farmers they
could blast rain out of the sky
with mortars meant for war Congress even
funded rain making by cannon blast at
the behest of wealthy ranchers over the
objections of federal meteorologists who
knew it was hokum and said so it was
neither the first nor the last time
politicians would listen to the
influential ill-informed over their own
scientists but again rain is not the
stuff of bombs nature and climate are
not what we have to fear rather that&#39;s
human action as water shows its other
face hideous unrelenting shrieking it&#39;s
Ray&#39;s delicious scourge of mankind so in
1950 the Army Corps of Engineers put out
this propaganda film waters of destiny
all about the glorious replumb ofthe UH
Florida Everglades to save South
Floridians from the vicious scourge of
mankind that was water and rainfall but
of course the folly to conquer the
Everglades left South Floridians
vulnerable to this day this vast wetland
once absorbed all of the region&#39;s
rainfall and storm energy but now we&#39;ve
paved over most of the places where
floodwater wants to rush in a storm but
guess what the floodwaters are
rushing to those places and these
photographs weren&#39;t hurricane
photographs these are just rainfall
photographs in South Florida and
changing climate so these are our
stories and for me they really raise
questions for the stormy times we find
ourselves in will we repeat the folly of
fighting climate with concrete will we
listen to the influential ill-informed
over our own scientists will we follow a
paranoid King down a dangerous path
again nature and climate are not what we
have to fear when it comes to climate
change it&#39;s human action and more
importantly lack of action again the
link between extreme rain and climate
change is not uncertain science it&#39;s
actionable science for every degree the
planet warms rains can be expected to
get about 10 percent more extreme so
just like our ancestors came together in
those four great river valleys to save
themselves in the epic drought it is
time for us to come together as people
to stave off human misery so the most
important thing we can do is prevent
future warming and that means lowering
the carbon emissions that are heating
the planet the second part of that
equation is to make our cities safer
right but this time let&#39;s work with rain
rather than against it brilliant people
all over the world in here in Florida
they are showing us how to do this stuff
in the northeast coastal wetlands saved
six hundred and twenty five million
dollars in property damage during
superstorm sandy
a rain revolution underway in Los
Angeles is creating permeable roads
permeable parking lots and these vast
natural catchment areas so that rain
will flow back into the aquifer where it
belongs
rather than flooding people&#39;s homes and
storms or being washed out to sea in
huge culverts during droughts when they
could really use that precious rainwater
well I hope I&#39;ve helped you see another
side to the story of rain and even to
imagine how we might turn it from foe to
friend for the rain is not the beast or
balm nature and climate are not what we
have to fear that would be us thank you
[Applause]
