
[Music]
and because of this nation
[Music]
look black brown desert
so I with some stark and sparkling facts
we do not know or estimate today that 65
percent of our water needs are met from
different 22 out of 30 major Indian
cities today - from 350 pieces for the
water requirements cities like Delhi
Kolkata Chennai we face up to London air
speed in the next 25 yrs in the last 10
years more than 300,000 farmers have
committed suicide if you look at this
map of India 54% of India is in height
with his teeth I wanna stress the world
capital availability of order has been
weakened by 70% the 21 to regularly our
noona has become one of the most
endangered reverse to the world who
Domini these are the internal art has
one driver
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
right yes a solution now we can reverse
these disturbing divine trends in the
future we can do something about it
their fuel models be done
we don&#39;t well be distributing the device
ourselves by building dams these check
dams building canals and propagating
ideas like including reverse our the
Tiber now come that we have to be a most
attention and object attention to
operating the flow of animals just think
about it in three years from now you do
not have the water
what are you going to read it and what I
will be discipline now many experts from
different fields like technology because
comics along with the support and
coordination of each on foundation away
the visual identity
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
this relation can be implemented
successfully through 14 action points
which are on the question I will take
into these fourteen points the first
point is the saturation saturation what
is there in the mendacious of
impedance which is coming in the upper
reaches of the river and then Delta for
downwards when we are cutting the trees
one will be the tension either side
these but you wanted takes the raw media
to peel them over very nice addition to
that open because the important will
have little impact on tourism production
of oil I think is very important for the
only survivor of the arts also highly
lucre&#39;s and multiple seasons it&#39;s that
or as in economic viability the flood
days have to be managed very chemically
but with power station
as well as what reduce the our
organization is to be spending on
getting us Trinity College has to be
enhanced indirectly reviews the farmers
can be tempted in terms of transition
from a fish farming basically it have to
be hand written tradition of chemicals
through Congress decided valence a
terrible fuckin pipe radiation practices
will ensure night in per part with one
sixth of the orbitals rule as effective
fragmentation which means more crop per
drop its own limitation of for any
produce will help as we develop Isis
will produce any repulsion difficulty
were more confident in terms of the
point of ingredients depending and
mighty big pipe leading companies in
[Music]
consumer sector to make good products
special economic zones will have to be
implemented to achieve the target for
processing of six percent to 20 percent
also to reduce PCA which currently is a
platinum 40% awareness generation will
have to be taken up to three D gasps
Pierre Trudeau commercial arm of the
Philippines international foods with the
milk in the foundation period of the
first five years with a mentality of not
becoming there will be losses this will
be compensated and other means and each
hospital
online content is published so that
businesses and the chief or
certification or compensation or
deterrent this week information visit
the partners come forward not be
punished by the link because there will
be when different departments will be
even according to many institution like
what the resources I preserve
environment
I want to the state will be sinking
Norman would have to be here it it has
to be us like nigga stop it or the
limitation participation as we can see
that the solution is a long-term
solution at mighty Pacific culture and
definitely is top executive action Tom
in you and I mean business very illiquid
and if other words is campaign that has
been initiated by something and it has
only become of people&#39;s movement here
and bringing awareness that the rebirth
about twenty one time and also to ensure
that the chief of solution in this
mission and the divine solution for all
stakeholders there are three basic steps
the first phase is awareness awareness
because this is partly depend of ISM we
can understand it better - intent the
success of some of the biggest Cooper
countries be in polluted education on
eight awareness even in our own
experience but the green hands which has
been one of the most successful for this
is efficient in the ecology they have
seen that we do business with the most
innovative online maybe
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
so in the spirit of aluminum let us take
a minute and because of fools and big
dismissed call right now and Nevada
Lehrer
