
I work in the field of social sculpture
and connective practice Joseph Boyce the
artist who coined the phrase social
sculpture said every human being is an
artist working with the invisible
materials of speech discussion and
thought to reshape the conditions that
shape our lives I work with a network of
social sculpture practitioners to
involve people communities individuals
organizations in mind shift work and
developing agendas for transformation my
own social sculpture journey began in
apartheid South Africa tormented by the
in Justices that my little five year old
self could not understand or articulate
the kitchen was the common zone where
black and white met where several
different South African mindsets
collided with each other
I watched the woman who worked for us
cooked food for me and my parents which
we then ate on China plates in the
dining room after we finished eating
she and the gardener ate the remainder
of the food but on tin plates in the
yard or the kitchen not in the dining
room when I was six or seven I asked my
mother why does Grace eat of a tin plate
and we eat of China once
why does grace not call you by your name
where does she call you ma&#39;am she
shrugged helplessly and answered what
can one do that is just how things are
this was my first encounter with
mindsets
but not the last whenever I asked why
got the same helpless response I
remember lying in bed at night feeling
very alone with my questions and
thinking this can&#39;t be just how things
are why can&#39;t we change them who said it

must be like this at 10:00 or 11:00 I
started to ask grace questions about the
situation in the kitchen and in South
Africa she would look down and say don&#39;t
get sad don&#39;t be angry what can one do
your mother is not a bad woman
sometimes when my parents were out grace
called me to come and sit in the yard
and eat with her so my home consisted of
many homes and I wasn&#39;t sure where I was
at home in the kitchen where all the
mindsets collided in the dining room in
my parents mindset or in the yard
sometimes it even seemed like none of us
were really at home at the same time my
experiences of authority of class
division of endless inhumane events
turned into an equally endless stream of
questions questions about mindsets but
my questions were also my first real
sense of agency as I got older I shared
my questions with others many didn&#39;t see
the questions at all and some like my
mother were resigned living in the
margins between these mindsets
I looked for people who believed in
change I found my way into the
resistance movement that included
activists writers musicians artists
lawyers alongside workers who all wanted
to change the world in the resistance
movement
despite lots of discussion there was
however little space for reflection on
different strategies and dimensions of
transformation the leadership set
strategy partly because of the urgency
of things the discussion that was
possible
turned into debates that tended to
harden existing positions and then in
the seventies I encountered many radical
thinkers thinkers an agency experiential
knowing and internal mobilization they
all emphasized shifts in consciousness
as an essential part of the struggle for
liberation they offered insights into
the connection between thought
imagination and action a particularly
inspiration with a little book entitled
a basic cool to consciousness drawn up
by a great gathering of First Nations
people and presented to the UN in 1977
it called as First Nations people are
doing now for a new kind of
consciousness beyond the extractivist
mindset of global capitalism that sees
all life forms and the earth as
resources it also made clear that we
have a lot of mindSHIFT work to do and
that outer transformation needs an inner
revolution in the past four decades much
of my work has focused on individuals
communities and organizations having a
direct experience of what it means to
use the invisible materials of speech
discussion and thinking so that we can
work like artists to explore and reshape
values attitudes and habits of thought
luckily we have an inner work space
a rent-free studio that we carry on our
shoulders it is the space of imagination
and transformation here in this space we
have a direct experience of our agency
and discover where mind shifts can take
place the first amazing thing about the
space that we all have in all cultures
and irrespective of whether we have had
formal education or not
is that in it we can call forward images
and experiences from the past
we call them memories I can for example
see images of little Shelly at about
four years old looking out at the world
with big eyes standing in the kitchen
seeing the ten plates and the China
plates and remembering the way people
didn&#39;t look at each other I can see all
this in the space try now to recall an
image of your own in this theater of
memory a place you loved when you were
young perhaps with the leaves emerging
from the trees in the spring it might
help to see inside the space if you
close your eyes go there for just a
moment now you know where this amazing
space is but actually we are using it
all the time when I go to buy tomatoes
for example I see them in front of me in
the present but actually I see them in
this inner space because my eyes are not
on the tomatoes and they are not in me
whilst looking at the tomatoes on the
Shelf in front of me I look back into
the recent past and see what&#39;s in the
fridge but now I also start seeing what
I might cook with them as I imagine this
I can almost smell and taste what I&#39;m
going to cook and I begin to salivate
what is taking place is truly
astonishing I am now looking at
something that does not yet exist I&#39;m
picturing the future and it activates an
inner experience I salivate although
this process is so profound and gives us
a sense of our imaginative power it is
also so obvious that we take it
completely for granted and yet this
capacity for seeing past present and
future can be used for much more than
buying Tomatoes and meal planning just
imagine how we could use this capacity
for seeing how things have been how they
are now and for developing images of a
humane and eco social future but the
most astonishing capacity related to the
space of imagination is to be able to
stand a bit to the side and to see what
I see and the minute I begin to see what
I see
I also begin to see how I see in other
words I can see the lenses with which I
see the attitudes the values and habits
of thought and when I see on this level
I begin to see how I think this is one
of the most significant capacities we
have because this in turn enables me to
think about what I think this whole
process is one of coming home to oneself
encountering what I think my
prejudgments prejudices my concerns my
future scenarios in a group in an
organization and in the social movements
it helps each
gather their own impressions and
thoughts look at them organize them form
them and share them and then we can
listen to what is emerging from the
group as a whole just as bees work
together to make honey from the
individual streams of nectar that they
collect so we have to develop ways to
make social honey to work together to
shape new social visions this is part of
the mystery of the relationship between
the individual and collective action I
have introduced you to the space of
imagination in your chairs in a lecture
theatre so you can get a sense of it but
usually we use it within connective
practices like earth forum to enable
processes of reimagining and developing
agendas for transformation developed in
a South African village in 2002 and
later for the climate summit in Durban
in 2011 earth forum is a prototype that
we know works because we have used it
with several thousand people with young
changemakers in China with farmers
activists and schoolteachers in South
Africa with healthcare professionals
lawyers planners educators and activists
in Europe and in contexts where
stakeholders had very different takes on
sustainable development we have also
seen the impact how individual
stakeholders find a common vision how
organizations are able to use it to
learn to think together and how
communities organisations and
individuals are able to develop agendas
for transformation but it is still a
prototype because we need to multiply
its use to do meaningful mindSHIFT work
in the world we need to reach
millions of people with this and many
other practices and so we offer training
for people to be able to do this through
our project called university of the
trees lab for new knowledge and an eco
social future this is an alternative
mobile university that exists wherever
people are willing to look at how we see
the world individually and together to
explore alternative mindsets beyond
stewardship and Dominion we call
processes like this instruments of
consciousness they connect thought and
action thought and life before I end let
me focus for a moment on the
Anthropocene this is a term used by
scientists to rename our current era it
acknowledges the effects of human
behavior on our planetary home social
sculpture is a response to the
Anthropocene it acknowledges that the
human being is a major problem we are
the only creature that does not simply
unfold with our capacity for freedom we
are the Earth&#39;s most dangerous creature
but facial sculpture also sees the human
being as the solution alongside
developing technical solutions we
therefore also need to focus on the
inner culture of the human being without
this inner dimension of sustainability
we can&#39;t develop a viable future so
instead of sidelining human beings with
humanoid robots let us come home to how
it is now - what we have done and to how
it could be for the first time in
history human beings have consciously
to shape a common future on a shared
planet and the struggles of the
indigenous people in many senses are
leading the way alongside their
challenges to capitalist extractivism is
a basic call to consciousness to
reimagine and reconfigure our
relationship to the world in this dire
situation we can either give up on the
human being or see the human being at
the beginning of its development a being
that does not simply unfold but needs to
develop its potential for empathy for
care at a distance and for perceiving
the bigger picture only human beings can
develop a new mindset based on
interdependence this is the radical
social art of the future learning how to
change our mindset which is also a
change of heart so let us redefine home
and find solutions here on earth this
would be a real homecoming based on
perceptions of the planet as one place
for all life-forms and systems and for
one race the human race
[Applause]
