
one time in my life I was a meat-eater
my favorite type of meat was orange
chicken from Panda Express then my mom
showed me a video it inspired me to
inspired me to become a vegetarian I was
inspired because I saw how much the
animals suffered how would you like it
if this little pig turns into that bacon
how many of you like animals raise your
hand how many of you want animals to
stay alive raise your hand I do I think
this is important because animals die
for us to eat meat I also think this is
important because there is less health
problems do you know how you get your
meat people have jobs for animals to be
killed for us to get meat and other
foods chicken is a number-one meat that
we eat and Turkey is and number two meat
that we eat ninety four point six
percent of us eat chicken did you hear
that
I said ninety four point six percent we
need a lay back on the chicken cuz that
is way too much anyways 56.2% of us eat
turkeys that is not that much but still
when you calm down scientific facts
state that seventy seven billion land
animals died each year I said it billion
not million how many of you want to have
a disease I didn&#39;t think so if you
become a vegetarian you have twenty-five
to fifty percent chance of not having
cancer did you know there is bacteria in
the meat and other foods that we eat
scientific facts says that there&#39;s
animal proteins in the meat that we eat
it says that if the animal proteins get
in your body and build up is bad for
your bones
I don&#39;t want that that to happen because
look at these muscles let me leave you
with this becoming a vegetarian
saves lots of animals and it is a
healthier way and it is a good way to
extend the one&#39;s life you all should
become one
[Applause]
