
in April 2017 marshes for science were
held throughout the United States and
Europe and demonstrators were protesting
against the climate change and against
the rise of totalism and anti scientism
nowadays in my opinion the exact science
of the so-called exact scientists were
over-represented in these demonstrations
why do I say this because in my opinion
what is going on nowadays concerning
science and truth and knowledge is also
affecting human sciences it is affecting
the whole knowledge of society so I
would like to broaden the scope of
science in an after truth era in order
to introduce also human science in the
discussion besides isn&#39;t it ironic that
president trans controversial attitude
it&#39;s precisely giving a boost to the
discussion and consciousness on climate
change this is ironic it is interesting
you know it is the blind who make us
realize what it means to see and this is
going on and so thus let us go into the
country or the city of the blind where
knowledge don&#39;t matter anymore in this
PowerPoint of a professor of clothes as
you can see
I never use it first question how
alternative facts come to be how to
explain that people nowadays could
ignore climate change how to understand
that in this era people could reject
theory of evolution how is this possible
well ignorant is human and there are a
lot of things we do not know but already
in Roman law two thousand year ago it
was accepted that the gross ignorance
so-called Casa ignorin SIA that the
gross ignorance has to be assumed to be
guilty
this is guilty behavior of the gross
ignorance and we have now gross
ignorance we see this and first of all
what we see is there is a kind of
ideological ignorant there is
ideological ignorance there is fact free
science and belief the first thing that
we see is that it linked it is linked
with belief belief religion opinion for
instance the Jehovah Witnesses sometimes
refuse vaccination this is linked with
belief the methodology of alternative
facts linked with religion very often
uses the so called literally lecture of
texts we know that this is a devastating
method
consider for instance Muslim extremism
today which is linked with this
so-called literally lecture of text
another methodology which is more useful
in my talk is the methodology of a
lawyer in fact free science what I would
like to say this is that a lawyer is
making a choice of arguments in a large
field of arguments
he&#39;s choosing precisely some things in
order to defend to defend an idea proper
or proposition it is construction and
when we use the methodology of a lawyer
in other sciences we have one-sided
analysis a good example is for example
Holocaust denial they are saying for
instance that Zyklon B is the lousing
agent this is right but when zyklon-b is
used in an undiluted form it is mortal
now let us now go to strategic there is
ideological ignorance there is also a
strategic ignorant an example deliberate
lies Colin Powell was lying in 2003
before the United Nations concerning the
mass destruction weapons of Saddam
Hussein the Nazis were lying in 1933
concerning considering the the fire of
the Reichstag the more freedom of press
we have the more difficult it is for
this kind of alternative facts to remain
as it is we are entitled to contest it
through freedom of expression to freedom
and of analysis ok let us now go to
alternative facts in Europe because what
I would like to say is that alternative
facts are not only linked with United
States with President Trump and with the
elections of November 2016 it started
already a few years before in Europe
also linked with populism in politics
and with a link with the rise of
alternative facts in media in politics
but there it is linked not with climate
change or discussion on exact sciences
if we could call this so but it is more
linked with human sciences and more
precisely we
history and national identity national
identity let me say first is your
personal identity is build up true
parenthood education language religion
relations opinions and so on and in the
same way our collective identity even
our national identity is a mental
construction which is build up through
experience traditions myths values and
so on it is a mental construction and
what we see is now that in countries of
Eastern Europe the the making of the
national identity is rising since
populist parties came into power and we
see there an infiltration of alternative
facts let us first make the analysis of
Hungary in Hungary we have this
remarkable fact let me first say this in
the Second World War
Hungary had some problems but it started
already before between 1920 and October
1944 the month is important Hungary was
led by governed by miklós horthy who
was a dictator it was an anti
parliamentary system totalitarian since
the 1920s which even in the interwar
period already an official
discrimination against the Jews during
the war Hungary had an alliance with
Nazi Germany in the meanwhile
nevertheless in march 1944 hungary was
invaded by german troops because there
were some difficulties but in fact this
invasion was only formal because nicolas
quality remained in power so he
continued to assume political
responsibility of what was going on in
his country just as it was in france we
remain in power to german swear
okay but and then in in May and June
1944 the deportations of the Jews
started the German our army was more or
less present that it was the German army
who deported the Jews it will remain at
were Hungarian police officer deported
the Jews who arrested them it were
Hungarian state officials it were
Hungarian so-called patriotic volunteers
who were arrested to Jews and who
deported them to Paris and one could
which we could hardly imagine that Holte
should have statues in PO in Hungary but
it is rush that use devoted to miklós
charity in Hungary it should be the same
as we should as we would have statues
devoted to Hitler in Germany a little
bit the same more or less more or less
we could discuss about the differences
of course more or less the same there is
more since 2010 a new party the first
party with Viktor Orban came into power
and they are intensifying the kotas of
necklace hearty necklace the patriot
necklace who who declared war in 1942
against russia the enemy of Hungary
nowadays Russia
miklós horthy who defended the real
Hungarians the real ethnic Hungarians
you understand well it is about and in
our countries is country as Belgium and
elsewhere we are discussing on
contemporary society trooper al
polarizing issues as our headscarves
halal food ritual slaughter same-sex
marriages and so on these are polarizing
issues where we discuss about the world
we want in a country as Hungary these
kind of discussions are not true this
kind of issues but it our discussions on
the past because the analysis of the
past is reflecting the world we want and
values we share and this is going on in
a country as
Hungary and then we see this remarkable
monument the discussion on monuments
which is also in the United States
generally in in the South here Budapest
Viktor Harvin surprised everyone with
this statue in the night of the 19th to
the 22 light 2014 nearby the Parliament
what we see here is the Archangel
Gabriel who is representing innocent
Hungary who was invaded on the 19th
March of 1944 by the Germans the EU this
monument is ignoring the fact that
Hungary was already an ally of Germany
years before this monument is ignoring
denying that Hungary had something to do
with what happened in Hungary in the
months after March the deportation of
the Jews this is a scandal but what
Victor Horta didn&#39;t realize is that
these kind of monuments it is a point of
crystallization for political opposition
as you can see here every day there is
something there before that statue it&#39;s
interesting democracy can survive with
this kind of political action let us
look at Poland a little bit the same
since 2015 we see in Poland the party
low on justice they are now in power
with premier caps in ski and it&#39;s just
the same they are firing museum
directors rewriting history books and so
on in order to create a story a national
identity around a patriarchal a
patriotic Poland and this creation of
alternate effects to is confronted
Second World War
with the phenomenon of the mass
destruction of
the Jews in Europe it&#39;s just the same in
Poland and there is a difference because
you know in Poland 90% of the Jews were
exterminated this is an embellishment
was almost 50% in Holland 75% in Poland
90% and most of the Jews were living in
Poland so it were 3 million of the of
the deaths where Jews in Poland and it
is clear it is evident that of course
the this was perpetrated by analysis
this is clearly but this was only
possible in Poland to do this with a
certain willingness a certain
cooperation by Polish people just as it
was in Belgium with the deportation of
the Jews in France in Horan just the
same but they do not understand it this
way in the party law and freedom and
there is a museum in Gdansk an
exceptional War Museum in Gdansk with an
historical approach very interesting and
the museum will be closed within a few
months the museum director and had to
leave ok and what we see is that now
there is a law which will be published
if it is enabled by Parliament and
saying that who is publicly and
erroneously accusing the Polish nation
or the Polish state of being responsible
or complicit in Nazi crimes it will be
imprisoned for two years and what we see
here we are in the heart of the
democracy true history what is going on
that the falsification of historical
facts true gross ignorance it is guilty
we are precisely in the heart of the
democracy and to conclude to conclude in
this overview I went from the United
States to countries as Hungary and
Poland in order to show you that there
is more going on than climate change
and exact Sciences and it is an an
invasion of alternative facts true
populism but as I said the more the
freedom of press the more freedom of
research the more difficult it will be
for these gross ignorance this
retrograde way of interpreting facts
will remain it will not remain that
there is only condition one condition
democracy has to remain and this is our
society where we need to fight for thank
you
[Applause]
