
we have a business called shea butter
latte and we saw some pretty cool and
relaxing products so what we were going
to tell you now is our story on how we
came up with shea butter latte first of
all we had to sell our product our
school an open house tonight we made
about one hundred dollars and we were
selling our product we even made our own
teachers to go their business but that
was just the beginning was created in
language arts class this idea came from
a book that we read called the Lebanon
War by Jacqueline Davies the book was
about a brother and a sister doing
separate lemonade stands but instead of
sharing the money they made a bet and
you can make the most money after it in
the book our teacher told the class to
get into groups of two or three once we
heard that we all in Philly looked at
each other and we knew that we had to be
in a group together once we got in
shared groups we started brainstorming
different products to sell when you got
lots of other groups were doing baked
goods and we wanted to do something
different which made me think of my
crafty grandma about a year ago she
taught me how to make lip balm that&#39;s
all and so so we wanted to bring that
idea to life so it was official we had a
green on body products our first step
was to create a business plan which
include cost supplies advertising and
choosing a charity I went to a cross
store to find the constants applies for
the soaps and Cora went to a different
crafts store to find the cost and
supplies for the lotion the total cost
of the supplies that we had to pay for
was $27 but we had everything else at
home so we didn&#39;t have to pay for them
our idea was to sell soaps in the ocean
at open house we thought that&#39;d be a
good idea 10 mini samples so the
customer really knew if they want to
purchase a product for advertising we
made a commercial less than a minute
posted it on YouTube and shared it with
the class we also made posters and
flyers to put around the school and
handed out business cards to our
customers the last part of our business
plan was a think of a charity to donate
all of our profit to since
I&#39;ll have dogs we immediately thought of
the animal shelter we had all previously
visited the same animal shelter and
after some research we decided to donate
money to the alcohol animal control shea
butter latte is a 50% charity business
which means 50% of the money we earn
goes to the animal shelter the other 50%
goes towards our business and making
more products we love caring tellers now
that we finish our business plan those
time to start designing our products for
the lotions we first tried making our
lotions with regular Bath &amp; Body Works
lotion and then the hand sanitizer and
then the bath soap let me mix it all
together but guess what it turned out is
water so we obviously had to try again
and then we all thought for a second and
we thought of our name and shea butter
is a lotion right so we added the shea
butter then the hand sanitizer and then
the bathtub and we mixed it all together
and it turned out great
so those are our new ingredients for the
shea butter latte lotion for the soap
first was melted pure glycerine in the
microwave well that was melted while
that was melting we put soap scent and
soap coloring in the molds once the
subways and melt away poured it into the
mold and let it sit to dry and that&#39;s
how we made our so the way we made our
bath salts was we added lemon juice
olive oil sea salt and orange zest it
makes us all together and that was
having made her bath salts the desktop
we were offered for open house was way
too small but with my dad&#39;s help you
made an even bigger stands but all of
our product on on may 19th yet open
house or school but before our customers
can purchase our product they had to go
see the teacher to purchase block cap
box which are layer to get straight in
for real money the big sell for $2 the
small soaps for 25 cents each and the
lotions were one dollar each we also had
a special deal for only 5 dollars you
can get a big soap a small soap a lotion
and a bath salt when open house was over
we made almost $100 made 32 bath salts
32 soaps and 32 lotions and we sold out
now
- is over we are planning on donating
all of our money to the El Cajon Animal
Control our teachers are helping us
donate all of the money we realized that
having a business was a lot harder than
we thought
yeah and working together could be
pretty difficult sometimes but in the
end it turned out great because we
learned how to communicate better with
each other and we didn&#39;t expect to get
as many covers as we did at open house
but we were very happy to see that
people really wanted to purchase our
product do you want the animals
we do
