
[Music]
British Democratic leadership Chinese
democratic centralism German Democratic
Republic dear the Democratic People&#39;s
Republic of Korea North Korea so what is
democracy most people think it is
majority rule
so in Parliament&#39;s and referendums
nearly every decision is taken by a
majority vote and even if by only a
margin of 50% plus one
the winner gets everything and the loser
gets nothing is this fair or wise
majority rule after all was a part of
the problem in Northern Ireland and for
example in the Balkans where all the
wars in the former Yugoslavia started
with a referendum majority voting in
fact is one of the most inaccurate
measures of collective opinion not least
because of the logic that if you have a
multi option debate then to take only a
two option vote is well unwise if not
crazy BRICS it it was a multi option
debate or should have been the UK in the
EU e a customs union or WTO but we only
had one majority vote in the EU yes or
no and it lost by a small margin but
majority votes on the other three
options would probably have lost as well
so I am going to talk about decision
making voting in decision making first
majority voting and then preferential
trade
my mum was an English Catholic a member
of the minority you might say dad was an
Irish Protestant
the same I was conceived in Ireland born
in England
I live in Belfast a minority of about
one and I was often asked are you
Protestant or Catholic neither are you
British or Irish both but democracy is
majority voting and in conflict zones
people ask these terrible closed
questions are you servile crowd Sunni or
Shia Arab or Jew Hutu or Tutsi but it&#39;s
the same in ordinary politics are you
for or against left-wing or right
communist or capitalist and because of
the relationship between the northern
island conflict and the cold war I went
to Moscow in 1984 and with majority
voting it often enables the leader
political leader to choose the question
as in brexit and in many cases the
question is the answer but not in
British but on other occasions
I&#39;m afraid the majority vote does not
identify the collective will does not
identify the majority will it as often
as not identifies only the will of he
it&#39;s normally a he who wrote the
question like Napoleon he had three
referendums and he was the only
candidate and by the way he won Lenin
did not even get a majority at all he
only got the largest minority he
nevertheless called himself a Bolshevik
the word means member of the majority
balance Ville and the others in the
smaller minority mentions Ville he
called the Mensheviks
next came Hitler with 88 98 and 99
despite this appalling history people
still use majority voting like in Iran
and they voted for socialism and yeah
99% brilliant and then they voted for
capitalism
yeah 99% brilliant and then they voted
for neither 99% crazy so I&#39;m now going
to talk about preferential voting and in
a pluralist democracy any contentious
debate should allow for more than two
options under debate and there are after
all more than two ways of drafting a
constitution drawing up a budget and so
on secondly you cannot get the
collective will
if people don&#39;t express their individual
wheels if people only say what they
don&#39;t want if they only vote no as some
of them did embrace it but if everybody
says what they do want in the EU ei
whatever then it should be possible to
identify the best the most popular
option and it would be possible if
people express their opinions accurately
and that means by using their
preferences more of this in a moment but
how should preferences be analyzed well
consider nine people choosing a barrel
of drink on the basis of three options
ale beer cider ABC and let us assume
that poor people think that ale is
delicious that&#39;s their first preference
cider is okay but they&#39;re not too fond
of beer that&#39;s their preference three
people think beer is the best on cider
and ale and two people have preferences
cider yeah and em so overall it seems
that opinions on ale are very divided on
beer but mixed and maybe see best
represents the collective will well in
regi voting all the information in the
gray is just ignored and the winner is
ale with a score of four and a two-round
system is a bit like the Austrian
presidential elections so
so if nothing gets 50% in the first
round there&#39;s a second round between the
two leading options in which cases NB
and in which case bear wins with a score
of 5 and a point system is a bit like
the Eurovision Song Contest so so first
preference gets 3 points the second gets
2 and if there gets 1 and you add up the
total and the winner is now cider so the
outcome the totally Democratic choice is
either A or B or C brilliant once upon a
time many years ago in a far distant
land there was a totally unelected
democratic British House of Lords and in
2003 a few of the Lords decided that it
should be elected and some of the others
said no no no it should be appointed the
state of square and a few said or what
about a compromise and they finished up
with five options on the table all
elected 80 20 50 50 20 80 and all
appointed so a hypothetical Lord J who
his first preference was all elected so
that would get five points would
probably have a second preference at B
and so on whereas lady K whose first
preference is 50/50 might have a second
preference of D and a third B and so on
or lady L who has a second preference of
B and a and so on if somebody has an
illogical set of preferences with two
peaks he has probably been bribed
threatened or seduced
but if everybody does have a logical set
of preferences then the collective will
and we just collect all the points the
collective will will always also be
logical and in this particular graph the
result is 62% elected 38% appointed just
to finish the very story the ancient
Lords believed in ancient majority
voting so they took five majority votes
and lost all of them bricks it as we
were saying was also a multi optional
debate but we only had the one
referendum on staying in the EU yes or
no but as I mentioned any referendum on
any of the other three would also be no
probably by a much larger margin and if
we had had multi option voting then
remained in the EU would almost
certainly have been the winner
preferential points voting has a couple
of other advantages if you vote for only
one option it gets one point if you vote
for two options it gets two points and
one for your second preference so in a
full option debate if you want your
favourite to get all four points you
have to cast your preferences but nobody
votes no success depends upon getting a
good number of high preferences
of you middle ones perhaps but a very
small number of low preferences so
here&#39;s the second advantage the
protagonist is incentivized to talk
nicely with their opponents preferential
voting is accurate it is also non
majoritarian it identifies the option
with the highest average preference
and an average of course involves
everybody who vents not just a majority
of them so if this were adopted as the
International Democratic norm there
would be no further justification for
majority rule anywhere democracy should
be inclusive the Parliament should
represent all the people and the
government should represent the entire
Parliament this is not what we practice
but it is what we preach to Northern
Ireland Bosnia Iraq Kenya Syria Ukraine
etc to conclude majority voting is
divisive majority rule can be a cause of
conflict bizarrely hardly anybody in
academia or the media like the BBC ever
critique majority decision making by all
means have a majority vote if the vote
is not serious okay and if but if it is
serious then any vote should be multi
optional like it was in New Zealand in
1992 and the Independent Commission drew
up a five option referendum and the
people voted and surprised surprised
they chose a compromise brilliant so
what is democracy in 1931 when Mahatma
Gandhi came to England for the first
time he was asked on arrival what do you
think of English civilization and he
said it would be a very good thing
and democracy would be good if it were
inclusive if everybody was involved or
represented in drawing up the shortlist
of options and then voting and then
implementing whatever decisions achieved
a high level of consensus support this
would require preferential points voting
in decision-making and all party power
sharing thank you
[Applause]
