
[Applause]
my name is Artem Angelico in I come from
Uganda in northern region I grew up in a
very happy
god-fearing family where by prayers and
helping each other was a solution to
life and your future my dream was to
become a lawyer by them but at the age
of 14 years old all my dreams were
shattered in 1996 I was abducted among
the girls from Saint Mary&#39;s College
ibaka by a rebel leader by a rebel group
that was fighting corn by then a hundred
and thirty nine girls reach the
destination on that first day and sister
who was our deputy headmistress
Sarah Kelly followed us and pleaded for
the rescue of the girls it was fortunate
or unfortunate only 109 girls who are
released that ovas remain that was the
beginning of hell to us we were beaten
we were threatened and we were told not
to escape if he escaped then all of us
will be will die
life in the bush was really terrible we
were divided to the rebel men who are
forced into sexual violence we were
abused and we experienced all forms of
torture beside that when told not to
talk to each other
it was really hard to see your friend
your fellow student as a stranger from
there it was so difficult because it was
so difficult for me because I come from
a light family who cared for each other
and loved each other I was seen as a
ringleader because they thought I was
mobilizing the girls to escape and every
time they keep on punishing me beating
me torturing me not to escape but I
never gave that whole I knew that at one
point I&#39;ll go back home despite all the
mum all the difficulties and sufferings
there were times that I had hope I
remember I used to pray so much I come
from a strong Christian family and I
could pray that none of my family
members could really be abducted and
each time that there were captives
coming in and I see around and I don&#39;t
see any of my family members I thank God
and again that hope again in 2002 there
was a woman who had three children and
the rebel leader I wanted to take some
of the women back to you
and anyway in this in Sudan by then she
told me to promise for our child that if
I&#39;m escaping I have to escape with the
child it was really so difficult because
people were dying life was so had we
were into ambushes but I had to promise
her little did I know that this woman
was not going to reach Uganda when the
reach at the border she died with some
other women when I heard of her death I
even stayed stronger to live for the
girl because I knew that was her wish
and I had to fulfill that promise that I
made to the matter the head but I never
gave up just to live for the girl
despite all the torture there were
moments that I believe that God is alive
protecting me I escaped I escaped death
several times innocently I was
threatened to be killed
and this really kept me moving on eight
years eight years in captivity with
suffering and pain
I&#39;ve been longing for this day and I
hear a voice like talking to me that
this is the time at first I thought like
this wasn&#39;t news to me because all this
eight years I have been trying to escape
trying to think of how I can live the
rebel group but I couldn&#39;t but this
voice kept on over and over game just at
around 11 a.m. in the defense that was
staying in there was attack and looking
at the girl by that time she was nine
years old
beside me I carried the three-year-old
girl on my back and we started rushing
towards Juba town because we were in
Sudan and there was a mother that I was
carrying the child and she was the child
was three years old and she never wanted
us to go to escape but I couldn&#39;t leave
that child because I knew if I had to
leave the child the child would not live
that was the time that I gained my hope
again and I said I knew that I would
escape I knew and I first that strong
that I have to live and that was the
time for me I feel so blessed because I
managed to escape with this guy I
managed to escape with a three-year-old
girl and the mother who never wanted to
come I thank God that we all escaped the
journey shaped me into what I am today
I loved I have love for this children
and I never gave up them I remember when
I came at the rehabilitation center well
vision rehabilitation center and the way
the staffs were taking care of the
children the way there were nothing the
wounds I just felt like this is home
this is what I want to do I went back to
college I did guidance and counseling
and I came back I was employed as a
counselor at well vision rehabilitation
center in 2012 and the center was
already closing during my time helping
the formerly abducted women and the
children that was the clear clear vision
that I saw that I have to work for the
children who were born of sexual
violence in 2013 when the product
project was closed I formed watching
again what it again means we have hope
we have hope it&#39;s a community-based
organization working for working to
support the children and their rights
and their welfare in northern region the
name wattage again was chosen by 85
mothers to reflect the fact that they
Astro they have faith they have hope
that their voice their faith and their
work shall contribute to the welfare of
the children they themselves and the
community that they live in
last actually this year one of the child
that was so lovely
she died innocently with no pain no
sickness but she was just position we
felt so bad and we thought this should
not continue again to other children and
how I hope continued seeing the children
born in captivity growing peace building
their self-esteem and the way they see
themselves is what motivates me and
energized me and that is why I am here I
still have hope and we have hope that
because we are the victims we are the
survivors and we are the women&#39;s of this
children we can change the situation of
this children we have hope that may many
more donors will come to support our
organization daily directly because
there are hundreds of children who are
still suffering silently there in the
community we have hoped that the
children bond out of sexual violence
shall be freed by our voice and we are
now documenting their success story we
have hoped that our voice may rescue and
encourage other survivors outside there
to advocate for their rights as they
live in the community thank you
you
