
[Music]
sunny banana bagga-t this is the sound I
heard every morning when growing up from
my very animated older sister it&#39;s a
greeting from Africa I&#39;m a proud Zulu
woman you are Indian you are American
you are European you are Chinese all of
us are human but we all have different
cultures today I would like to speak to
us about the importance of preserving
our cultures I came across a sobering
statistic that one language dies every
14 days and that by the end of this
century half of the 7,000 languages
spoken on earth will cease to exist this
is because more people are moving
towards speaking English Spanish and
Mandarin it&#39;s true that the world is
going through mobilization and we are
all moving towards one culture in one
language I grew up in the valleys of
Zulu land in South Africa and had the
best of all childhoods growing up I
played in the mountains with my brothers
and sisters we sang traditional songs I
helped my mother tend to the land and
together we made beaded artworks at
night we would sit around the fire as
mother and father told stories about our
heritage and so I grew up with my head
and heart filled with love for Zulu
culture this is the same place that
Shaka Zulu also grew up in so now I
would like to invite you to my village
please come to my village because my
village is your village we all live in
one global village as the Zulu woman
heard of my culture a part of my belief
is in Ubuntu and it is bad I welcome you
that I honor you and that I respect you
come please come into my mother&#39;s
beautiful heart she has made a fire
there is a smell of smoke
she is also cooking a gold stew with
dumpling please the man can sit on my
right on the wooden stools and the women
and children can sit on my left on the
read meds that mother has woven as you
can see my mother is a picture of an
African woman she wears a seed wobba a
traditional Zulu skirt and on her head
she wears a crown that we call estatal
oh it is a Zulu head
my mother is barefoot and she is
carrying a child on her back but she
also wears a beautiful smile that is
loving and nurturing she is also our
teacher because she understands the
importance of passing on culture to her
nine children as children we loved to
listen to stories and especially when
mother would begin to sing for us we
waited for paths where we could also
sing along the start of his song in
short that you were all on our feet
dancing singing and laughing and at the
end of the song we would
rolling on the floor tears dashing down
our faces not able to stop laughing
growing up we listened to many stories
but we also listened to stories about
our history we listened to stories about
culture and heritage we listened to
stories about the land and how to
nurture it but we also listened to
stories about bundu love and respect but
importantly we were taught to pass these
cultures to our children so they may
pass the same cultures and traditions to
their children from generation to
generation and so forth this ladies and
gentlemen is the beautiful African
village that I grew up in life was
simple it was full of spirit but it was
also very authentic but it&#39;s 17 I left
my humble village and found myself in
Johannesburg a small girl in a big city
I stepped off the mini bus at candy&#39;s
square in downtown Johannesburg with my
clothes crammed into my brother&#39;s old
suitcase until now I had never seen a
building taller than 2 stories so I
stood there amazed and there were people
all around me seemed everybody was busy
no one would even stop to greet me like
we did in the village people were just
whizzing all around me and I was
wondering where are all these people
rushing to I stood there fascinated now
you must understand until now my life
had been guided by my parents wise
decision but blinded by bright city
lights and materialism I close my eyes
to the lessons of my culture and those
of my parents I got lost
as I was spending all my time trying to
mimic the Johannesburg woman someone who
I saw as in control
she was glamorous she knew her story she
was outgoing
she was calculating but I also saw that
she was very aggressive well I had to
really think about this
because I thought I&#39;m none of these
things in fact I&#39;m very soft natured I&#39;m
quiet I&#39;m shy I&#39;m extremely private and
most of my friends consider me a little
bit boring months and years we&#39;re coming
to pass and still I did not feel like
this city girl why because I was trying
to be something I was not one day I was
invited by a friend to be one of her
bridesmaid the brief was simple that we
all had to wear long shiny leaves and so
I refused and so she dropped me she
dropped me and when I asked for an
explanation she said that Tandi you
cannot be my bridesmaid but listen to
what she said next she said because you
need a weave as a black woman to look
beautiful mind you this was a black
African woman speaking I encountered
many of these scenarios and together
they changed
outlook and reminded me about personal
authenticity but I was also tired of
trying so hard to be a city girl in fact
I think we can all attest to the fact
that it&#39;s very tiring to try and be
something that you are not and so I woke
up one day and I no longer wanted to be
anyone but myself in fact I wanted to go
out to the world and highlight the
things that were unique and authentic
about myself in my culture I look back
at my life in the village and found
inspiration and not my mother I wanted
to use my time but to do the type of
work that showcases the beauty of Africa
and with this found inspiration I
started a business I noticed that as I
started to present my authentic self to
the world that the world became a
wonderful place again I worked really
hard and was soon working with the
Department of Arts and Culture creating
authentic ideas to preserve South
Africa&#39;s heritage I learned that the
village girl in me was indeed my biggest
asset and that it is what sets me apart
from the rest through my travels I began
to learn about art and fell in love with
it and one day while sitting on my hotel
balcony in Paris I decided that I wanted
to be an art dealer I wanted to open a
Contemporary Art Gallery in South Africa
that showcases the best art that South
Africa has to offer
a few months later with the help of my
wonderful mentors we launched CBC
gallery named after my maiden name and I
became the first black woman in South
Africa to ever own an art gallery before
this moment it took me almost a decade
of getting lost to finally feeling like
I found myself that feeling of I&#39;m
finally home but at the same time I
don&#39;t think we really ever stopped
trying to find ourselves I learned many
lessons during my journey and these are
some of the lessons that I learned be
yourself and the rest will follow
know where you come from so you may know
where you are going take pride in your
authentic self because it is what makes
you unique
in the world your personal authenticity
is your most valuable asset it was my
mother who instilled this love of
culture in me and now it is my
responsibility to instill it in my
children culture molds us and gives us a
sense of being I want people everywhere
to know the importance of culture I want
mothers to know that they are the
carriers of culture especially women we
need to know that we are teachers of
oral tradition and therefore we are oral
historians as you can see I&#39;m pregnant
I&#39;m expecting twins
I&#39;m expecting twins and so this talk is
for my children
to come this talk is also for my son who
is already here but I want this talk to
also be for your children in Africa we
say it takes a village to raise a child
and in terms of Ubuntu it is our
responsibility to raise our children and
build them a better world as I finish
this talk I want each and every one of
us to look within ourselves and ask
ourselves these questions am I currently
representing my culture or am i so
immersed in modern society that I have
forgotten my roots what message am i
passing on to the next generation am i
passing on a true identity or am i
passing on an identity that is distorted
what am i doing to preserve my culture
am i my authentic self as for me time
disability I have learned to take pride
in my authenticity I have learned to
stand proud in my position as an African
woman knowing that I have a lot to offer
to the world I am not defined by the
status quo I am standing here as an
authentic African woman and at the same
time being a modern woman embracing and
understanding that I can be both and
that I can choose what works for me
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
