
[Music]
[Applause]
it is not that long that we realized
that we are surrounded by a world
invisible to our eyes consisting of very
tiny organisms which yet have a
tremendous influence on animal health
ecology and evolution on earth we are
surrounded by a fascinating biodiversity
and this biodiversity clearly must have
been evolved at some point and taking a
look onto this and putting the earth
life history onto a simplified time
scale like over a calendar year we will
realize that early my life just appeared
around March on earth and was consisted
of single-celled organisms until
September the first multicellular
organisms just appeared in October lands
like land plants and insects evolved in
November and higher animals in December
and when we put the evolution of the
humans onto the scale will realize that
we just appeared very very recently in
earth life history like basically in the
end of December so life on Earth was
dominated by and consisted of simple
single-celled organisms for most of the
time we all evolved in a microbial world
and the word microorganism already
implies that these organisms are too
tiny to be seen by naked eye and
therefore humans had no idea about the
existence for a very long time even
fatal disease hunger crisis and
epidemics which are actually caused by
microbial pathogens could never be
brought into context and there was no
explanation for that and so the first
insights into microbiology
was achieved in 1675 by antonie van
Leeuwenhoek so Anthony wasn&#39;t the
scientist he was a lens grinder but his
abilities were very great that he could
grind a lens of the size of a rice grain
which was extremely effective and he
built these first small microscopes and
he decided to take a look into a droplet
of pond water and what he saw was
basically mind-blowing for him he got
inside
into a new hidden world full of
mysterious creatures that no human being
has ever seen before and he called them
very little and immaculate and he drew
them but actually his work wasn&#39;t fully
acknowledged for almost 200 years
and most work about pulling the
microbial world into light was achieved
between the 1860 s and 70s and two of
the most important works were done by
Louis Pasteur who could show that wine
fermentation is actually not caused by a
chemical process which was believed to
that time point but rather by metabolic
processes of living microorganisms
because if you boil everything you kill
the life and there&#39;s no activity anymore
and this is a sterilization method which
is still used in food industries and
which is called pasteurization and
Hobart caja was the first person who
could show that a bacterium was the
cause of a disease of anthrax and
afterwards the germ theory of disease
was generally acknowledged which was
followed by a boom and microbiological
research and discovering several
pathogens being the cause of many
horrible disease but there were also
findings about making beneficial use of
some microbes in terms of fighting such
pathogens in 1929 Alexander Fleming
discovered that there was a mold
contamination on one of his agar plates
he actually studied pathogenic bacteria
and normally that&#39;s not a big problem
you which is discs are displayed but he
realized that around this mold colony
the bacterial growth was inhibited so
the mold was secreting something that
killed the bacterium and this is the
very first antibiotic penicillin which
saved thousands and thousands of lives
and clearly the mold is not producing
this for human sake it is doing this
because in a natural microbial community
it will be surrounded by divers other
microbial species and they are all fired
they fight for resources for space and
food and indeed there are several
microbes that are able to produce a
bunch of nasty compounds like
antibiotics toxins or ethanol to kill
competing microbial species
so people started to realize the
importance but also the potential to
stop to study microorganisms and indeed
we can&#39;t culture several of them and we
can make them visible and accessible for
us but indeed only the minority of
microorganisms on earth is really
cultivable and it&#39;s a bit hard to talk
about numbers because researchers are
still arguing how many microbial species
really we really have on earth but
potentially it&#39;s about one percent that
we know so if you want to study
microorganisms from an natural
environment you culture them and then
you can classify them you can run
experiments and you can sequence them to
get their genomic information but this
information is just the tip of the
iceberg and we have no idea what is
below and which diversity we are missing
just because we cannot culture this
stuff and luckily science is progressing
and nowadays we have different methods
which will not rely on the scattering
step anymore and depending on what
you&#39;re interested in you can extract
total DNA RNA or proteins you can
analyze the data and you can check the
diversity the relative abundance or you
do functional profiling of the whole
microbial community and this is when
researchers started to basically
sequence everything around them and also
when we realized how huge the
biodiversity in the microbial world
really is and look outside of the window
go into a forest or dive deep dive
deeply down to an awesome coral reef it
is very likely that he will never face
such biodiversity that you can find in
microbial communities and it was also
the time point when we realized microbes
are not only everywhere around us they
also colonize us inside and outside so
we have at least as many bacterial cells
colonizing us as we have actual human
body cells there are 30 to 40 trillion
there are 12 zeroes so this is a really
huge number and it somehow must affect
us somehow that
and nowadays we agree that all higher
organisms are closely associated with a
diverse microbial community and this
gave rise to the term hula beyond
defining the host organism together with
these associated microbes the microbiota
as the unit natural selection acts on in
the beginning of hosts microbiota
research again many peoples focused on
studying the bad guys and clearly there
are some pathogenic microbes that can
make us sick but that&#39;s not everything
and it more and more turned out that
there are diverse microorganisms having
different beneficial functions for the
host and so your microbiota will act as
a first barrier protecting your body
from getting colonized by pathogens they
can actively fight pathogens by for
example producing antimicrobial
compounds they can improve host
nutrition by helping the host to digest
food or by supplying beneficial
substances they can detoxify harmful
substances in the diet and they are also
known to be involved in modulating host
development immune system and even
behavior so microorganisms are taking
huge tasks and so it&#39;s not that
surprising that they can actually act as
drivers of animal evolution and to give
some examples the microorganisms in the
intestines of herbivores are responsible
that the host can get enough nutrients
from the cellulose rich plant diet like
the Koala has a 2 meter long cecum which
is densely colonized by microbes which
help to digest the eucalyptus leaves
bioluminescent bacteria are helping to
modulate the light organs of some squids
they will also colonize this emitting a
constant light and the squid will
provide nutrients to these bacteria and
is also able to manipulate the light
intensity based on the actual moon and
star light which will erase its shadow
in the water making it invisible for
bottom-dwelling predators and I think
many of us like coffee
so the plant is not producing caffeine
to give us a better starter to the
morning it&#39;s doing that to protect
itself from getting eaten
and indeed high doses of caffeine is
deadly for most insects like they just
get immediately paralyzed and die and
really almost all of them one exceptions
this is a little beetle this is the
coffee borer and it will develop in the
coffee berry it&#39;s basically based in
caffeine but it&#39;s not the beetle itself
that evolved resistance against the
substance when you remove the internal
bacteria then the beetle will react like
all the other insects it will die when
it consumes caffeine so the internal
bacteria are responsible for detoxifying
the caffeine for the beetle opening a
new niche and environment for it so
there are many more awesome examples
around but we might see that microbes
actually have a huge influence on animal
ecology and evolution so might be
surprising that host microbiota research
is still hampered and one simple reason
is the number of species involved in
most systems like in the human gut we
have at least 160 main bacterial species
and we are talking about a microbial
community all of these species can have
an effect on the host but they will also
interact with each other and the outcome
of these interactions again can have a
complete different effect to make the
whole system more complicated we know
that hosts that the host genotype can
influence the microbial community
composition and on top of that we have
environmental factors like for example
coming from the host diet to put it in
simple words most host microbiota
systems are simply too complex and not
experimental attractable and this is
what we need to understand the phenomena
it is basically like studying a tornado
while you are standing in the middle of
it so this is the reason why we are why
we really need simple systems that we
can fully understand to be able to apply
this knowledge to the more complex
systems this is the time point where I
would like to introduce the honeybee
being a really good model
for host microbiota questions honeybees
are naturally associated with a small
stable and long wave of microbiota
consisting of about nine core bacterial
species which are all accountable the
microbiota gets horizontally transmitted
from older to younger bees which is
actually similar compared to how the
human microbiota gets transmitted and
the whole system is experimentally
tractable but there&#39;s also another
reason why it&#39;s really important to
better understand the system and that
bees are having a very important job on
earth they are all main pollinating
species and at least one-third of our
daily diet depends on pollination so
without natural pollinators we get
significantly restricted and these
people are not having fun climbing
around in the trees they are doing the
job of bees they actually pollinate
flowers by hand because it is already
reality in the world that we have areas
without natural pollinators around the
reason for this worldwide decline is a
combination of different stress factors
like poor nutrition due to agricultural
monocultures or the toxins that we apply
to our natural environment but honey
bees are also naturally challenged with
the diversity of pathogenic bacteria
fungi viruses and parasites making their
lives pretty miserable and all of these
stress factors could be already shown to
negatively influence honeybee health a
healthy intake microbiota on the other
hand is positive for the be potentially
being able to buffer some of the
negative effects coming from the stress
factors but interestingly it just turned
out recently that these stress vectors
will also negatively influence the
microbiota leading to for example
dysbiosis and this can be the beginning
of a vicious cycle for the be leading to
sick and dying populations so an insect
microbiota is crucial for honeybee
health and we need to better understand
all factors and the interconnections one
smart thing to do is in general to take
a look at her nature
and when we do that we will realize that
not all honeybees species or subspecies
are suffering equally from the same
stresses the African Bee has been
introduced to Brazil in 1956 and has
colonized almost all of the Western
Hemisphere which is one of the most
rapid biological invasions known it has
met the white European bees and they
made it and they formed hybrids the
Africanized bees there we go and these
hybrids are actually the ones that
spread so rapidly
so indicating that they have a higher
fitness under the same natural
circumstances we know that the genotype
can influence the microbiota composition
if we now consider that the microbiota
has an impact on hosts fitness this can
lead to a difference in fitness and
different changing challenging or new
environments we have three factors here
we have host genotype we have microbiota
we have environment and we can sequence
that we can check for microbiota
differences between the genotypes but
this will not give us any answer about
functional relationships so what we need
are controlled experiments first thing
we need to get rid of the environmental
factors because this is far too much to
control for so we can do something like
Richelieu proko microbiota transfer
experiments in the lab we can challenge
the bees against stress factors and now
we can disentangle if host genotype or
the microbiota is more important in
terms of stress resistance we can break
the system down we can feed single
bacterial cells to test the effect we
can feed two bacteria or we go step by
step more complex 3 4 5 to test which
affects the interactions between the
bacteria will have from the host and to
put everything together honeybee
colonies are worldwide in danger and the
reason are different stress factors like
poor nutrition and toxins and this can
negatively influence the microbiota
leading to example for low to a lowering
of the diversity but that&#39;s not
everything there&#39;s more stress around so
we have pathogens we have parasites it
with a negative influence on the bee and
what a beekeeper will do now to save the
colony he will he or she will provide
antibiotics or apply toxins to the -
vironment and but again this could be
shown to negatively influence the
microbiota and of course the whole
system so there&#39;s there are many more
factors involved than just genotype and
microbiota and stress and it also
doesn&#39;t matter which stress factors
comes first and in which combination but
at some point it might be too much
stress and so one solution could be
instead of going for this short-term
solution by providing antibiotics and
toxins will be to maintain a healthy and
diverse microbiota which is co-evolved
with the host and to allow it to fight
for its host and we can do something
like this by providing beneficial
microorganisms for example but before we
can do something like this in an
efficient way we must understand
everything and so we still need to do
some more research thank you very much
you
