
it is my heartfelt belief that every
human being enters this world with a
reason of existence
very few discouraged early some late and
many might never do at the age of 12 I
discovered that this world is undergoing
a giant transition and wanted to know
what my role could be I realized that we
as a generation have a critical role to
play because once such a realization
enters the human heart it ignites a
flame and it starts to restlessly burn
and never leaves today I would like to
take you on a journey and ask a Trinity
of questions how did we get to where we
are what is the state of her worlds in
the 21st century and how can we
co-create a future most beneficial for
all if we would travel across the
universe and an ancient legacy to the
formation of the earth of 4.6 million
years we would only come into the story
after bacteria fungi plant animal
kingdom and then us human beings if you
would imagine this walk as a walk of 4.6
miles as the deep time walk reflects
then we would be only the last 20
centimetres of this walk on the length
of an arm this would be your fingertip
more strikingly the Industrial
Revolution is the last hundred 50 years
which is one-fifth of a millimetre in
which we cause the amount of mass
destruction and geological impact that
we&#39;re facing right now it is clear that
we live in such turbulent times socially
economically ecologically and also on a
level of loss of meaning and purpose in
our hue
societies this presents us both with
unprecedented crisis as well as
opportunities if we transform them into
a future were capable of
Peter Drucker reflects that every few
hundred years in history there occurs a
sharp transformation within a few short
decades society its wealthy you its
basic values its social and political
structures its arts its key institutions
rearranges itself we&#39;re currently living
to such a time in that spirit the
cultural historian Thomas Barry reflects
that throughout the course of human
history we always had a story to make
sense of the spirits of time to
understand the worlds and to find a
collective sense of direction to
navigate into your future it is clear
that our old story is dying and our new
story has not been born yet where in
between the stories were in a rite of
passage in our human development we&#39;re
just puber is trying to become mature
which is a painful process that brings a
burning question what is then the story
over time and what is the role of young
people in defining that story
what is the story of my generation the
millennial generation if you are between
18 to 35 years you&#39;re considered to be a
millennial you don&#39;t only compose more
than half of the current world
population of seven point four billion
strong but you&#39;re expected to comprise
75% of the global workforce in 2025
according to this recent KPMG CEO
outlook you will be among the four top
CEO concerns for the years to come in
terms of your differing needs and ones
about how to engage you the Millennial
workforce better this means that you&#39;re
coming of age and you are inevitable in
your growing significance in redefining
that story but also to partake in this
process as collaborators
Architects in the future prospects of
her world of course it&#39;s important to
mention that this story is not only
about my generation but it concerns all
generations and also for stakeholders
what we see nowadays is that talent
walks away in businesses large
corporations institutions because
millennial leaders young professionals
feel unless misunderstood and they think
that they have a different mindset which
generates an intergenerational divides
to understand these dimensions better
and explore these questions I&#39;ve been on
a long lifelong learning journey in the
last few years I was very fortunate to
have a liberal arts and sciences
background and I was exposed to
interdisciplinary learning I
participated in global leadership
programs across 28 countries - six
continents
- youth leadership networks and summits
and many world communities sector white
everything converged together at the Rio
+20 summit in the historical year of
2012 when 50,000 people gathered to
decide on the future for planet this was
a very important point for me in time
because I identify two major needs the
first one was parallel to an inventory I
started to make which was affirmed by
Paul Hawkins book Blessed unrest in
which he identifies already in 2007 that
right now there are at least 1 million
initiatives in a world working towards
social and sustainable development
sector white this is the largest social
and sustainable movement of all times
but it&#39;s fragmented and decentralized it
has no leader no name no location and
the question is how do we bring these
capacities together to enhance
visibility and facilitate
intergenerational synergized
collaboration I started a global network
of networks at rice tech store this
called synergize earth network
the second major need I identified was
to shed evidence-based and social
scientific light on who millennial
leaders are what their characteristics
are what their mindset is and what
causes this intergenerational divides
ultimately what their role would be in
defining this new story and so-called
paradigm drought my fieldwork in
speaking to 4500 millennial leaders
future decision-makers young
professionals and change agents in more
than 140 countries whereby many also
participated in my surveys whereby a
generated quantitative and qualitative
data a very insightful exploration
revealed itself millennial leaders
change agents young professionals reveal
that the current social economical
ecological crisis has a crisis of values
underneath it this reflected self back
in the current dominant will to you as
well as the current dominant so-called
paradigm and story also in leadership
and organizations we see this and they
perceive this as highly dysfunctional
because it&#39;s part of the
business-as-usual paradigm it&#39;s highly
hierarchical authoritarian based on
command control and power dynamics and
self-interest
they suggest strongly an alternative
paradigm an alternative story an
alternative leadership agenda we don&#39;t
know what this is yet although for
instance leadership development is one
of the oldest fields and it has evolved
all the way till the 21st century to
great thinkers like Plato and Aristotle
ease although there are many
explorations they&#39;re still not a
converge enough debate happening yet to
define a future leadership agenda what
millennial leaders young professionals
reveal is that we
need to look for this agenda and
value-based approaches although there
are many stereotypes around Millennials
like being narcissists lazy tech
dependent on the country I found many
characteristics that are already also
known such as a generation of being
globally oriented digital natives
valuing the importance of work-life
balance being entrepreneurial innovative
and creative but most importantly that
value-based leadership that enhances
self empowerment processes and a sense
of autonomy and that enhancing life from
learning to enable this scheme you might
ask you what does lifelong learning mean
then I mean there are many definitions
like learning throughout a lifetime
self-directed self-motivated learning
adults education home schooling but also
learning new skills to catch up with the
demanding changes of the workforce like
in the face of optimization but what
lifelong learning means here can be
characterized by the identity flame
which is inspired by Bill Essex and the
art of thinking foundation if you would
imagine this flame the first layer would
be the essence of a person and ID or an
organization around that you built your
character your value system your
principles everything that you need to
carry this core out in a simplified way
this would be what you are around that
you built your skills your capabilities
your talent your acumen everything that
you need to function in this world
around that you build your actions
hopefully these are your conscious
choices and eventually your results in a
simplified way this would be what you do
or societies workplaces schools nowadays
are very much focused on these last
three layers but whether you go from the
from the inside to the outside or the
outside to the inside what you strive
towards his alignment
what does alignment mean then in my
understanding and exploration it means
to make a personal commitment and
promise to yourself to become the best
and truest version you can be to find a
sense of purpose to unleash your
creativity to try VIN your talents to
excel in your fields of occupation and
from there make a contribution to the
world around you whether this is your
family your campus your workplace or
this society at large this reveals an
identical insight in my excavation
especially in my fieldwork and
conversations with many Millennials in
which they affirm that before we can
serve others and the world around us we
need to practice what we preach walk the
talk and live and breathe and embody
this as a lifestyle in how we raise her
children how we consume how we carry
ourselves how we communicate with others
because when we do so we cultivate the
quality of her presence in our lives and
we&#39;re naturally in service to the world
around us but the quest over time is
about how do we bring this remembrance
these individuals and capacities then
together this is not easy because it
requires us to unlearn and unbecoming
empty ourselves from everything that
we&#39;re not to learn to distinguish it
requires us to develop a sense of a
compass to navigate through the trials
and trial and tribulations and triumphs
of our lives
while keeping up with our daily
commitments and responsibilities this is
not easy to do this in balance and not
become the burnout generation as there
are many reflections around it as well
what I often see is a divide between
many millennial leaders change agents
young professionals being either very
purpose-driven and value-based or very
outfit
ribbon and result-based how do we
reconcile these two qualities that were
capable of how do we align our inner and
outter development how do we bring the
right and left hemisphere of our brains
together how do we bring our soft and
hard skills together can this flame
being at the center of lifelong learning
and lifelong learning being at the
center of our schools universities and
educational institutions be the pathway
to enhance this can we place lifelong
learning at the heart of our lives while
seeing our lives as the classroom
constantly is another burning question
that this brings why this is so
important is because already in 1972 by
the authors of the limits to growth and
the founders of the Club of Rome we have
seen that the forecasts they&#39;ve made
about where we would stand today in 2017
are unfortunately alarmingly accurate it
even forecasts that mass destruction
will grow for the years to come also the
recent big history conference a
scientific field that looks at these big
questions over times reveals that one of
the major insights to get out of this
transition and to survive as human
species is to acknowledge that our
technological advancement is a
manifestation of how far we have evolved
as human species but our moral
development has not grown hand-in-hand
with it therefore perhaps the new story
is maybe not one that we need to
redefine but perhaps it&#39;s about the
revival of remembrance of that what we
have forgotten because we have drifted
so far away from the innate human
experience from what it means to be
human and alive perhaps if we remember
this and allow that flame to be ignited
within each one of us then the new story
can birth to us one thing is for sure we
can certainly not
is alone and my generation cannot
fulfill its potential if the generations
before us don&#39;t do so therefore my
invitation to the world is regardless of
your age your gender your political
religious ideological background your
sexual orientation let us join forces
let us join our hearts our heads and our
hands to come together across
generations and sectors to put this
flame at the center of our schools of
our workplaces of our lives and offer
world why this is so important because
you as a millennial cannot discredit
what generations before us have done try
to honor and build upon the legacies the
wisdom to know how the expertise and
experiences that out there by those who
walked the path before us if you&#39;re
above 35 years
try to stand on equal grounds with the
younger generation try to understand
them and be mutual mentors for them try
to join forces with them if you are a
stakeholder no matter what sector you
operate in try to shift the current
debate on Millennials that is mostly
focused on retention and recruitment and
optimizing talent strategy and branding
towards resilience so that we as a
generation can equip ourselves to become
resilient in the face of the challenges
we&#39;re facing right now why this is so
key is as the great mystic and
philosopher Mevlana Rumi reflects
throughout our lifetimes from cradle to
grave we&#39;re given an opportunity
unlimited precious time and we as human
beings like silkworms become butterflies
out of the thousand and one
possibilities and probabilities have
chance to choose for a life that we are
born for that we are particularly
designed for and/or quest in life is as
he says to go and find or belonging let
us find our individual and collective
belonging let us realize our human
potential let us restore our
relationships with ourselves from there
with each other and our earth because if
we are the people and if these are the
times and if it&#39;s not us who then if
it&#39;s not now when
thank you
[Applause]
