
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
thanking you all of audience
participants and organizers and fast
turns injured in India as a principle
not only first I&#39;m only sure I fill not
proud like only the man I feel too much
lonely and alone because my present
situation like us
Mahabharata T shanku a mainstream today
still now mainstream is not agreed to
accept me and my community not ready to
accept me show I have no I have no
community have no life my previous
speaker spoke about the excitement of
family excitement of friends excitement
of children daughters and sons
I have no excitement very long a very
alone I feel I feel always lonely so I
did a lot here and I express myself for
for my writing in research transgender
revolution in present era at the outset
I would like to give thanks our aft TEDx
for giving me such a big platform
to express my thoughts and feelings I
myself feeling highly privileged and
honored to be here now I would like to
speak on the transgender revolution in
present era I dr. Minami bond o Partha
recently came into limelight
in the whole country Ida present
especially the transgender community
every day we come across on the street
some we disap in female a trees clapping
on the roles and big arms to earn their
livelihood mainstream people do not pay
respect this class rather they look down
upon them with the content but I am an
exceptional tongues endure who dances
who dance they acknowledge as a
principle travelled by my own car owns
my own flat properties in one word I
live in a dignified lifestyle because I
have sound education if I wouldn&#39;t have
formal education people would not hold
me in high esteem so being a transgender
I myself
film education is the first and foremost
weapon to fight against all odds and
buffets but my community people grant
access to decieve education in school or
college or university they are built to
enter in those educational institutions
sometimes students even teachers
sometimes students even teachers as all
make fun at Dame irritate them every
twist and turn
since this class does not receive
education the domaine in dark showed
they have no other choice
bigger society guru / guru shishya
parampara society and then so the
smokiness in borrowed Bangladesh and
Pakistan
[Music]
mr. mainstream society did not accept it
they built own Society own community
[Music]
[Music]
someone has stated in someone non
castrated they are always completed name
Jo who is true his earnest castrated
claimed they they were they are true his
wrath and Lanka state has claimed the
day are to Tanzania so they are always
conflicted them in their community
[Music]
cruel situation
as a principle we can uplift their
standard of living by making concerted
effort in the field of education job
health etc usually this people maintain
protect discipline lineage but I broke
this unbroken chain of this ethnic class
Tanzania and Hydra both are ambiguous
word but it has two different meanings
of late the word Hydra is considered as
a occupation the transgender word is
coined very recently this word was not
prevalent from the time immemorial I
still strictly remember there was no
such word in dictionary all the
effeminate boys who have gender fluidity
are considered as hydras the word Hydra
was a slang repulsive unless few
centuries ago in my childhood time if a
boy became Hydra her whole family food
or bad name in the society and the
person is considered as the black sheep
or disgrace in her whole family for this
reason we become unwanted in the family
when people heard that there was a Hydra
in a family people would break the
matrimonial not even sometimes society
would out cause the entire family that
that is why they were considered in a
sweet aspirations when they were
Austin Austin eyes from their family
society they would become vagabond and
wandered about here and there in search
of money for shelter etc so those
ostracized people together started
living and formed the original community
this is how his Rock immunity came into
being his Russ lifestyle are cars in a
civilized society in order to uplift
their standard of living
the Honorable epics code had delivered a
historical verdict on 15th April 2014
but the verdict was neither effective in
the central nor in the state level
government property much consciousness
is needed not for the people who
supposed to get the benefits but for the
people who make this body defective the
mainstream people who found the majority
their considerations become country&#39;s
law on the other hand being minority our
class is much neglected even does not
get proper respect they are treated
worse than a beast this is the main
reason they are bound to leave the
mainstream within a civilized society to
keep a group of people at bay by
eliminating on the ground of sex and
gender is not justifiable either rather
it is a disgrace form civilized society
it was much too late to understand by
the civilized people in our society but
but it is true that
this better late than never today his
Rah&#39;s and transgenders are sown as
different communities in reality all his
eras fall under the transgender category
but all towns endures are not his earth
the people those who did not go for his
rahu vision rather they accepted as
challenges in order to established in
the main streams even before them
mainstream also bow down their heads
I myself accepted challenge by
determining my heart and soul today I
became principal but I didn&#39;t bake
before anyone this is how I made his
story in this country evoke I want to
evoke these people by imparting proper
education in sharing their health job
and others social acceptance acceptance
and equal rights like our mainstream
purple before evoking these people I
want to evoke the mainstream people
should that they embarrass this
ostracized class with all humility it is
very important large-scale
sensitization and our nish are required
in order to evoke the mainstream classes
enlighten when mainstream purple eric
become conscious and embarrass them
embarrass them with all humility then we
can expect a better place to live in
harmony tanco
you
