
I always gentle envisioned myself being
a part of a community and the type of
community I had read about in my English
me before my perimeter that know clearly
that villages and in battery that there
was a story about the community now that
community related markets and in that
market space you did see any person
except the people who have done so
please the style of transaction was to
place the number of space that&#39;s the
product cost and everybody would treat
really just go if you saw sense things
or tell sticks you think you paid the
amounts of money that you take your
products are you go everyw there was
nobody checking it in them or looking at
you still in my products or anything
nobody was in the market also the day it
is no chance they were stupid to keep
their ways open like that came nature
that could really now why did I why did
I learn to be part of that community you
ask I&#39;d like to be part of that
community because I was intrigued by
their trust by their mutual respect and
my just selfless ambition and entering
the fact that they were not there is two
things maybe they&#39;re resting maybe
they&#39;re using that time they could have
spent India in the marketplace should be
many other things that spending time in
the marketplace will stop them from
doing joint venture to be in that kind
of community a lot to being that kind of
community as far you know I also noticed
that so tell me why
the communities the fact that I believe
they can kill herself they had gone
beyond doing everything because of
themselves they had killed herself
no as sad as I felt about it houses
woken up from that dream I waited to be
part of such a community first watching
my reality as a theatre unknown in my
cha woman I really needed element kisses
I need to smile and hug I truthfully
tell the man sitting next to me you&#39;re
so beautiful you&#39;re so lovely us astray
I want to tell her how great it is for
me to be near her and learn from her I
want to join my hands I watched on my
face
I&#39;d join my idea and even faith it&#39;s
another woman so we can fulfill our
dreams of doing some of these
mind-blowing structures for the good of
all let&#39;s make friends I&#39;m just eating
earth yes I want to be by myself at the
forgive me and I am sure if you do fear
me I know when I ask the question of
masks in life we all seated here and I&#39;m
sure many of us have that same desire
that I have that hey only two things
with the other person why are we so
afraid of pain things with each other
there seems to be this child and visible
wall that stands beyond any of average
business to power whenever we try to
work together totally eliminating the
possible fusion of dreams of beauty
together truth be told we are talking
about building bridges are not loans if
you were to build these bridges we know
I believe we have to start with the
conscious reconditioning of our minds we
must first believe that it is possible
to even build this bridge Willis&#39;s
believe that what we can&#39;t adventure to
is a possibility we must approach the
impotence of psychometrics that will
help in this reconditioning process we
must speak to treat what is the teacher
asking we must build a church about the
importance and the sustainable gains of
a good and exemplary parenting as a
mother we are here as mothers truth is
do we really read introductions that
what we do please
very very vital rule in do tell you
women want to continue this bridges we
are planning to build retreat but not
all men are makes those little men are
also flexible but their wives or
daughters the cheeks but there are some
men and fathers who are understanding is
there are men who are supportive enas
hold on to that treat see what they have
to offer are we meant to build ships
about the gates of a bad skill in
business a skill that has integrity and
fairness in our dealings with our
partners and our staff likewise he was
third retreat of the impetus of the
acquisition and application of knowledge
in our questions of relevance
contaminants relative in structure
didn&#39;t just walk into success we must
prepare we must tell our subjects it&#39;s
about the preparation of where we wanna
be
it is the journalist
shit behind our supposed humility and
selfless love for Humanity truth is many
of us venture into the space love to
give for Humanity to gain anything it&#39;s
all about us we must tell ourselves the
truth the truth that self is what we are
mostly about is really not about the
society it&#39;s about us personally I see
this bridges that will allow it to build
I said this bridges panel across society
limitations of age of gender of
educational qualification gossipy
religion I see then representing a
mindset I don&#39;t see this business as a
structure you see I see this bridge is
representing a main set a community of
people who are equipped with the right
attitude character and expertise
religion work together to develop a
sustainable system bleeds in the
integrity of the character of every
women and girl child as we aspire to
build as we plan to build I believe we
must best carry out some reconnaissance
survey by asking ourselves and key
questions that in my opinion will give a
clearer picture of what we see and
conceited a large structured projects
just as I adjust the packs ourselves why
do we release it to beauties breeders
why do we release it to build these
bridges the bridges we build our Vista
contribute them to Qatar for a
particular structure in the society only
we see to do the bridge to set up a bill
that&#39;s an LED structure will most acts
our self that question we use also acts
are self sustainable and high reaching
we plant our pages to be contribute
transgenerational bridges that stand the
test of time or seasonal
that lady generates a lack of use due to
lack of trust
yeah and what do we go for this bridges
to be rebuild what do we look for them
to lead us away from and where do we
intend for them to lead us through and
we will leave to sit by by to distrust
please selfish pursuits to conflict to
prejudice to applica really just by us
to the lies we tell ourselves unhear
heartedly and with the place where
silent you can in own words truth thrust
and balanced than just kills are the
guiding lights we planted these bridges
to be accessed by everyone who exhibits
the character or are we really here make
the access to this bridge official
social class educational background no
ethnicity or religion these are
questions we must ask ourselves how
dependable is the integrity of a lot the
first breach how dependable is it if we
answer this pastors truthfully and with
all sincerity and actually in this
preliminary concerns I am sure that
joining the clan for this bridges with
under smoothly the Special Master like
the joints at the trenches or the plans
of his beauties now that leads me to the
left
II think the building blocks for these
bridges if we are tribute these bridges
we must first see ourselves for who we
truly are
we are the building blocks for these
bridges every woman said here every girl
child she said here we are the building
blocks for these bridges
along mindsets and the integrity of our
culture we greatly determine the
executive and the quality of the
building blocks and we only use
definitely affects the quality of the
bridge we can tribute the CEO it will
affect the quality of the grid we plan
to build because a bridge is only as
strained as its building works and the
integrity of the builders because yes we
might have the right beauty results but
if the bill does lack integrity then the
bridge matches we are not spending as be
relaxed when I first realized that
learning person can do it all there is
no one building material that is it mr.
fizzles will protect anything right in
the erection of every building we are
all important as building blocks for
these bridges the CEO here presents the
grant water the hospital that markets
women that suture the public worker the
least based on an OBE we must also take
our attention of ourselves and focus on
community we are not referring to our
self-identity I&#39;m not referring to our
self-identity that showcases that
uniqueness that causes us to stand up in
the south on Reformation is that such
that special reason why we give that
first man or say - best hello
we must let go of that self
we must not be ourselves as the ultimate
reason why we do everything while you
ask because being self consuming is
asleep
this softness I mean doesn&#39;t leave
traces the new big news self no I need
to explain what I mean myself
Felisa justifies rigidness what never
means let me check that okay hey we also
said there were women and then some of
them wonderful male here with us
certainly justifies a real and secular
leaders even though it hurts for her to
see the men are wearing another me
community on the other hand cares and
respects another enough to say no even
if she is approached by that means man
for me gas is no poison still in
another&#39;s idea well pretended to be
putnams community understands the
importance of synergy and the gates of
the mutually beneficial relationship
guarded by integrity so me subsist not
be enrolled in our ordinary shots - I
love this the personal favors and finish
our gates even though there is a message
at the template for the job community
understands the need for the proper use
of public funds by an experienced and
capable hand for the general will do to
society self doesn&#39;t bat an eyelid
well much within another&#39;s child the
additional six understand have a child
if the child had the culprits community
sees every child for who they are
individuals will need to be guarded with
patience and understanding not
forgetting the rod of Correction self
encourages a child to do whatever it
takes to win the race
you must confessed in your class you
must be the leader of the park I pray
that you are the leader of every
you know community teaches a child that
in life is not a competition she
advocates the child and the importance
of knowledge through hard was not work
and the values such as integrity
tolerance patience and excellence judges
another unworthy of her son or her
builder is a delay or inability to
better child even when she knows the
problem lies with her brother person
kilometer 60 understand the popularity
of every situation and professor initial
annotate on self-disciplined I to that I
just molestation or exploitation of
another so resist I am yet to understand
community faces the trips and those have
little bits to help and correct the such
situation self is all about me me me me
later how selfless inaudible my actions
are community 6 the transgenerational
progressive and sustainability for all
in the land committee sees everything
position every relationship as an
opportunity to inspire to encourage
another to positive thinking and action
how well we work and walk together will
determine how smoothly and how fast we
can get this reaches up and ready for
use we cannot accomplish much if we
don&#39;t see the need to build no for the
gains of our society and our community
for self game we can choose to think the
less of self and no can we choose can we
choose to take less of self and know
about us as as a body
how can acute eye lash or eyelid but
well in the face is unwashed how cute
can you be
how can a wopsle drain boasts explore
and best amazing possibilities if it is
housed by the generated heart which is
weakening capable of still the vast
possibilities that the brain sees if we
are what community know what thinking
our children will have a better chance
of actually making our world a better
place than we have made it because our
community will be one vast emergence of
people who have the power not just to
build bridges let us make sure that
those bridges sell as passages to an up
service passages true and full lunch of
great exploits and unrestrained
expressions our community will be made
up of a vast array of peculiar distinct
yet complementing lights all the same
one big illumination that dispels every
form of darkness on its path our lights
will shine through every female child
every teacher every lawyer every
business owner every medical
practitioner every adventure every firm
every politician every pastor our
actions will affect your children - no
we cannot afford to waive of the
importance of the community over self as
some of us do today by justifying our
self-consumed and very progressive
actions same community over self today
changes our narrative to man as this
pinches on a path of self and vision at
all times if we choose to seek to
yourself it will guide our every action
it will guide our every speech you will
check each language yourself what I&#39;m
about to do is it for the good of the
community and for my movie we always
find ourself question in our life if it
doesn&#39;t deserve with doesn&#39;t the purpose
other than self then we do not go
through with it I am a community
no multiple can we be welcome in a
little thinking thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
