
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
in August in September of this year 2017
we witnessed three powerful hurricanes
emerge the atlantic these contributed to
the most powerful hurricane season on
record the damage that these storms did
to lives and livelihoods is staggering
hurricane Harvey dumped 40 inches of
rain in four days in parts of Texas
hurricane Irma followed behind and with
his powerful winds damaged nearly every
building on some Caribbean islands and
in parts of Florida behind that came
Hurricane Maria decimated Puerto Rico
wiping out the entire electricity system
and most of the drinking water system
for a population of three and a half
million people at the same time we had
wildfires burning in the western United
States destroying thousands of homes the
costs estimated to repair from these
damages totals over 300 billion dollars
unfortunately this is the new normal
now scientists have studied that and
determined that the sea levels are
rising because of melting glaciers and a
process called thermal expansion as the
warmer temperatures warm up the Seas
they gain more volume higher seas yield
to higher yield higher storm surges
during hurricanes which results in more
flooding we also know that the air
surface and water temperatures are
increasing why and warmer water give
hurricanes more power making them dump
more rain and giving them powerful winds
hurricane Irma gusts were recorded at
215 miles an hour climate change will
impact all of us for the rest of our
lives even if we stopped emitting fossil
fuels today
the emissions that we&#39;ve pumped into the
atmosphere so far will continue to
generate unprecedented warmth
unprecedented increase in temperatures
for decades if not centuries to come
climate change is causing the decline of
crop yields it&#39;s causing the spread of
many diseases beyond their normal range
it&#39;s contributing to our sixth mass
extinction it&#39;s contributing to an
increase in both droughts and floods
it&#39;s causing a greater frequency of
deadly heat waves it&#39;s causing more
violent conflict it&#39;s even generating
refugees collectively we need to come up
with some solutions and this the leaders
of the immediate future how do you think
about climate change is going to
determine what kind of solutions you
imagine so how do we think about climate
change one very prominent way is as an
environmental issue this makes sense
climate change will alter our
environment
scientists conservatively estimate that
the extinction rates that we&#39;ve seen
over the last 120 years should have
taken between
eight hundred and ten thousand years and
remember that extinction means that
species is gone and we&#39;re wiping out
millions of years of biological
evolutionary processes environmental
organizations are concerned about
climate change because of the potential
loss of dominant species like polar
bears because of the potential loss of
our coral reefs and the like
organizations prominent organizations
like Greenpeace International Friends of
the Earth 350.org and World Wildlife
Fund are taking up the mantle of climate
change the other way that we can look at
climate change and I think we often do
as is as an economic issue there&#39;s been
a great deal of economic research on the
potential costs the climate change will
have on our economy as well as using
economic tools to disincentivize our use
of fossil fuels
recent research predicts the climate
change will cost the economy in the
United States 1 billion dollars a day
within the coming decade this is not
centuries from now this is within the
coming decade and that&#39;s half of our
estimated economic growth others have
done research and projected that by the
end of the century
our global GDP will be down 20% because
of the costs of climate change other
economists have developed tools like
carbon taxes and cap-and-trade systems
to try and get us to use fewer fossil
fuels so again climate change makes
sense as an economic issue as well the
third very prominent way that we look at
climate change is as an energy issue
global warming and climate change are
caused by the burning of fossil fuels
coal oil and natural gas that we burn in
our vehicles in our homes and in our
production so a lot of organizations are
concerned about how do we change that so
they are developing and/or lobbying for
a switch to alternative fuels that use
less carbon burn less fossil fuels so
things like solar and hydroelectric Al
Gore&#39;s climate reality project and Elon
Musk&#39;s Tesla are just a couple of
examples of organizations that are
working in one way or another from this
perspective my challenge to you today is
in addition to those perspectives and
underline any perspective that you may
have about climate change we need to add
the principles of justice if you think
about the principles of justice and
their most basic sense we think about
fairness we think about equal treatment
before the law and we think about
holding people who are responsible for
harming others we want to hold them
responsible for that behavior right and
we seek we seek justice through
punishment like incarceration or maybe
with the restitution through fines for
people who have caused others harm now
understanding the causes and
consequences may make this justice
perspective more
so how do we look at the causes and
consequences of climate change let&#39;s
start with the causes if we look at us
at a singular global problem as if we&#39;re
all in this together the problem is is
that that masks a lot of variation in
the the causes of climate change so we
can look at look at it from a global
perspective and greenhouse gases which
they&#39;re referred to as such because of
their heat trapping ability a carbon
dioxide is the most prominent of a
handful that are contributing to climate
change so if we look at the co2
emissions in the atmosphere in this case
from 1970 to 2012 we see a general trend
pretty continuous increase however as a
globe we are still a planet of
relatively sovereign and independent
nations so if we look at it from a
national perspective again for 2014
again looking at carbon dioxide
emissions we see some pretty clear
patterns where China is the primary
emitter of the emissions that are
causing climate change now the problem
with that is that countries have greatly
varying levels of population so if we
look at it from a per capita emissions
rate then we can adjust for that level
of population and again we see a very
different picture in this case the
United States becomes the prominent and
primary emitter of co2 responsible for
carbon dioxide in fact it takes two
people from China two people from
Germany two people from the UK on
average to emit similar levels of
emissions as a single person from the
United States it takes six people from
bazzill nine people from India 13 people
from Honduras to emit the similar level
of emissions as the average single
person in the United States it takes 30
people from kira bas a small island
nation that&#39;s predicted to be submerged
by rising sea levels to generate the
same amount of emissions as a single
person in the United States 50 people
from Kenya 56 people from Nepal the same
amount of emissions as one person from
the United States so in many respects
the responsibility for the causes of
climate change are becoming more clear
one last way that we can look at the
causes is from a historical perspective
because a lot of the warming that we&#39;re
experiencing today is the result of
emissions that were put into our
atmosphere a decade maybe even a century
ago many the co2 and other gases linger
for a long time and so if we look from a
historic affective from the history of
industrialization when we started
burning fossil fuels we see again that
the United States is by far the most
prominent single nation in contributing
to the problem that we&#39;re all
experiencing now in climate change
unfortunately the consequences of
climate change despite these three very
powerful hurricanes and the fires out
west the consequences of climate change
are not distributed proportional to
those who caused it because we&#39;re
impacting the global atmosphere the
United States is the leading historical
emitter and the leading per capita
emitter the consequences of that action
spread beyond our own boundaries and
beyond the impact on us so instead what
we see is more impoverished countries
more impoverished communities indigenous
communities in our own country being
more vulnerable to the consequences of
climate change so when we think about
increased frequency and strength of
drought here in the United States our
industrial agricultural system will
develop drought resistant seeds will tap
into our ability to irrigate our crops
and this will buffer us somewhat from
the immediate consequence
of climate change a subsistence farmer
in Malawi or pastoralist Masai community
in southern Kenya that contributed
almost nothing to the problem is they
are already facing life life-threatening
consequences of climate change and have
few - no resources to deal with that as
sea-level rise as the Seas rise as the
sea level rises places like Wall Street
in lower Manhattan and Miami we will and
are building billion dollar sea walls we
will have extensive pumping systems in
my--in parts of Miami Beach they&#39;re
raising the streets so you walk out of a
shop and the street is at this level now
to prevent already frequent flooding
well what about the 20 million people
who live in relative poverty at or below
sea level in southern Bangladesh who do
not have the resources to just get up
and move do not have the resources to
build a billion-dollar seawall to keep
those rising seas from coming in what
about here abbas and other island
nations who as the sea levels rise their
cultures will have to disperse and
struggle to survive what about the
indigenous communities in Alaska who are
literally seen their land erode away
during winter storms due to higher sea
levels and having to be moved to
communities and lands that they are
unfamiliar with what about bearing heat
waves we&#39;re gonna retreat to our air
conditioning which ironically further
exacerbates climate change we&#39;re going
to be able to avoid moving to the
hottest places in our own country when
they become intolerable southern Texas
Arizona New Mexico we&#39;re going to be
able to avoid moving in those places or
those there many of them will be able to
move to cities of with higher latitudes
that are cooler although some predict
that by 2100 Chicago of the temperature
range of McAllen Texas others in other
parts of the world will not have those
resources others who have not
contributed to the
causes of climate change as we have will
not those resources to do do such a
thing so if we can look pointings from a
justice perspective this helps us to
understand why developing nations are
asking the United States and others to
contribute billions of dollars to a fund
to help them to adapt to climate change
to mitigate their own emissions with
using alternative sources of energy this
can help us understand why people are
calling for the open transfer of
technology to allow them and assist them
in adapting to climate change now even
that the reduction of emissions is not
equal when we think about reducing our
emissions we&#39;ve had well over a hundred
years of fossil fuel-based driven
development that has led to relatively
very very comfortable lives and a level
of consumption never seen before on this
planet and now we&#39;re asking other
countries when we talk about climate
change being kind of a singular global
issue we&#39;re asking other countries to
not follow that same path that we did
using those relatively cheap very
powerful fuels and instead to pursue a
path of development using mork&#39;s
currently more expensive and less widely
available alternative sources so while
climate change is such a large issue
that it will require collective
institutionally global action what can
you do as an individual through this
perspective well I think first and
foremost we can think about what
luxuries could we forego in order to
assist somebody else who is doesn&#39;t have
those same resources and is already
feeling the impact of climate change we
can divest our own investments and ask
our institutions like colleges and
universities to divest their endowments
from fossil fuel companies in order to
stigmatize them
and encourage society to alternative
fuels we can challenge ourselves to
learn more about climate change we can
join social movements my own Ries my own
Survey Research looking at large protest
movements around climate change the
people&#39;s climate March in 2014 in New
York City and one in DC earlier this
spring shows that about 70 percent of
the people in each of these protest
events supported this ad this climate
justice frame supported this idea that
the United States and other highly
developed nations owe or should provide
millions of dollars to help developing
countries overcome the challenges of
climate change that we have caused
so with this justice perspective I think
we need to hold ourselves accountable we
need to hold ourselves responsible for
that which has benefited us we need to
bring the conversation to any position
that we have an opportunity to you are
the leaders of the immediate future in
education in business in organizations
in all levels of government you will be
talking about climate change in that
positions I encourage you to bring this
justice perspective to whatever those
discussions are I hope that you will
maintain a global perspective when you
think about your consumption when you
think about our wealth and when you
think about your emissions thank you
[Applause]
