
Here I am here
did you hear me them us we are with
blushed yellow rays of hope trying to
find a way to be seeped into those
pinhole cracks we&#39;re beating hearts run
into blood streams of our ancient
wisdoms stories beings and yes
psychedelics when all else is gone and
the rats have fed off scattered flesh
from open wounds wounds that have led
some away from their brains away from
hell holes away from connections away
from homes away from bad bugs away from
truths our truth it took only a germ
cell of to that pulsed pulsed
pulsed into an existence exist we are
here even with those no longer on this
earth even with those who entered and
went missing forever and yes even with
those lost plants the elders
grandparents families siblings ancestors
loved ones past even the Unforgiven can
be forgiven from those historical
erasers we are reborn sometimes we need
the past to be present all this to free
our stories free ourselves free our
ladybugs to touch our spirits touch our
ghost towns from two ice ages ago from
then to here from life to life giving
what&#39;s left what&#39;s left us our central
human form we are here in the global
world moving in bodily containers
unfurling like flowers and becoming big
and loud remove those imposed labels
those awful diseases
hang in there transformation takes time
there are chapters you will live to tell
about so together the Earth&#39;s cracks
with needle and thread reweave those
gaps of time we need to acknowledge the
lands we walk on
the displaced places like abandoned
alleys Falls hotels species patterns of
erasers sometimes we need courage
sometimes we need to find that courage
to tell truths to fly to imagine to
experience agency to go deep and feel
firsthand hardwired connections we want
experiences real or virtual perhaps to
even be different to be whatever is your
avatar what is it
perhaps you need to jump over those
hoops those stairs those tones in order
to experience the words worth spreading
those words that lead to your wizard
self those summers of free summers of me
summers to be summers to disrupt and
become unsticky uncaught unwrapped
unburdened unwired from screens that
hold us that addictive that detach us
away away from our bodies away from
well-being let&#39;s move to face
voice care take be the passengers of our
blooming into filling our baskets into
trying new names into using our brains
into building our populous maps into
toxic free places find that lost
umbilical cord honor honor it it ties us
to familiar it ties us to knowing it is
more than one timeline it is discovering
who&#39;s missing rediscovering who we are
because of you them all of us we have
found the courage into our humaneness
thank you
[Applause]
