
what role does medicinal chemists play
in drug research so let me just give you
a very very crude background of what
research is about the drug research
typically can be divided to two stages
the first one will be what we call a
trap discovery and this is a stage a
compound of interest which can
potentially act as a drug is identified
the later stage is what we call drug
development and this is a stage where
all preclinical and for I as well as
humans will be carried out medicinal
chemists are properly involved in drug
discovery stage in this drug discovery
stage what the medicinal chemists did to
synthesize purify characterize and
compound so it&#39;s pretty boring you
myself
right so huh but they played an
important role framing the hypothesis of
a new track project so they have an
important role to play as after a hit
compound has been identified hip
compound basically means a compound
which is pal
it is a medicine chemist who tends
decide which part of the molecule change
or modify in order to enhance or
maximize its activity and during this
fine-tuning process a project may feel
drugs that we have today exist is due in
part to medicine chemists can tirelessly
to solve one problem and over the years
many new approaches in drug discovery
has been made and one of the most
significant that I want to share with
you is the emergence of biologics so
biologics
eclis engineer products based on living
organism the proposition of using
biologics to true or to cure diseases is
about just imagine such as cancer using
peptides or proteins antibodies or even
cells so very recently there are
researchers who has been using t-cells
in trying to cure cancer
so t-cells is basically a subtype of
your white blood cells what these people
did was to harvest the T cells from a
patient&#39;s body reprogram it to make it
targets specifically against tumor
cancers and then put it back into a
patient so this type of technology say
just five years ago because as drug
discovery is basically dominated by
small molecules the small molecules are
organic compounds typically less than
$1,000 they are very very small
molecules so in comparison for example
one strain of your DNA basically a
billion Delta so small molecules have
served as well over the past few decades
remember your paracetamol
or your panadol or your aspirin these
are all small molecules so small
molecules are very popular because they
are easy to manipulate as well as easy
to produce but they have one drawback in
the sense that the tip but they are not
specific so what this means is that
there&#39;s always a remote chance of these
small molecules acting as drugs
interacting with unknown these
at Target and this could spell problem
later on in a position in terms of side
effects so on the other hand logics are
very specific and it acts only on one
particular target and the fact that
biologics is based on living organism it
is perceived is perceived but it&#39;s not
always the case that it is safer with
less side effects so have come a long
way during the past few years in 2014
six of the top ten best-selling drugs
are smaller molecules so the trend was
reversed in 2015 and 2016 where the DOM
blood drops down to only two with the
rest dominated by biologists so we can
actually see a changing trend over here
in between the popularity of biologics
and small molecules the de jure is
sustainable it&#39;s left to be seen but no
matter whether we are talking about
biologics or small molecules is still
take five to six years in terms of drug
discovery and if you include that with
drug development and to bring a drug
from the lab bench to clean it it will
still take about 10 to 15 years and
still very long time it&#39;s not to mention
the success rate extremely low success
rate of just 0.05 percent on average
coupled with hefty price tag of more
than 2.6 billion u.s. dollar
so now you know why sometime drugs are
sorted right so one of the trend which
scientists has been looking at is on
heart of therapy the one of the ways
that we could do it is repurpose or
drugs what this means is that
nutrients so humans have been
repurposing we have been changing into
museums we have we have been changing
all tires into swings and so on and so
forth so why not drugs
so repurposing in drug discovery refers
to a situation when a poof drop finds
another use which is to treat a
different disease so James black a Nobel
laureate in Maxim wants water that the
best way to find a nutria is to start
one a very wise man anybody knows vigor
all right I can see some guys over there
nodding the head smiling yeah so Hydra
was originally developed to treat
cardiovascular disease but along the way
in this clear sense that makes a better
treatment in treating erectile
dysfunction and it&#39;s popular for its
later application as people tends to
forget what&#39;s originally developed for
so this just shows one of the success
successful ways of repurposing and audre
so it makes complete sense to Reaper it
will only take only called an encode 300
million u.s. dollar and six and half
years to repurpose a lot compared to 2.6
billion u.s. dollars as mentioned just
now or 10 to 15 years to develop a
completely new one another area which
has been receiving a lot of attention
and heavy investment is artificial
hodgins kind of like right now
multimillion-dollar tie-up between
leading pharmaceutical companies and AI
service providers has been announced air
to be able to increase the chance of
success in identifying user by helping
to predict which molecule so how it will
work how he will behave and become a
useful drug so a is perceived to be able
of the cost of approach by doing away
with unnecessary tests yeah it&#39;s not
something very new in a sense that he
has been around in the 1970s or the
1980s so what makes the difference
between the AI in the past and the AI
now so AI now is much more powerful
compared to AI thirty to forty years ago
what actually makes the difference is
that they have developed a superior
neural networking which means that AI
now is able to learn to perform tasks
faster and better without specific tasks
programming we actually can sense a big
tool some people can actually sense a
breakthrough twenty years ago in 1997
IBM supercomputer deep-blue maybe some
of you were not even born have managed
to beat the then world champion Garry
Kasparov in a series of chess games so
this actually shot quite a number of
people because at that time not many of
us within the machine could actually
beat human brain in analysis
but the big question now is that well AI
succeed in drug discovery nobody will
know is anybody&#39;s guess hotel but what
is certain now is they&#39;re in drug
discovery as you might know now is a
long and complex journey then the best
way to attempt this in my opinion is to
harness the brains of as possible we
have amazing people doing great things
in very diverse areas in knowledge in
chemistry in nanotechnology in
engineering so all these people to
actually contribute towards the drug
discovery efforts the key now is to how
to get these people to work in a more
collaborative manner not only within
academia but also within industry it is
heartening to see some symbiotic
relationship actually developing between
academic institution as well as industry
one very good example is the recently
announced joint collaboration between
Novartis and the University of
California Berkeley so they have a joint
effort to look into undruggable proteins
which means proteins which are and it is
with a staff collaboration with more
scientific picture
work um that&#39;s also innovative platform
by leading pharmaceutical companies such
as substrata mica as well as our Ivy Lee
who has provided free screening services
of compounds the test activities against
our the diseases of the interest so this
is especially useful for organizations
or institutions which do not have the
means of Verity the screen for the
compounds previously and not lagging
behind not-for-profit organizations
institutions such as
Wellcome Trust has also played a part
Wellcome Trust together with the
University of Queensland as drawing the
establish the community for open my
antimicrob of the drug discovery unshod
Co abd so what it did was to have
samples from all over the world and the
screen is compounds activities against
bacterial pathogens as well as following
them so there&#39;s no doubt that instead of
open innovation or strategies and help
to push forward the drug discovery
efforts and we are looking forward for
more to come right so this is exciting
times for drug discovery what have made
during the past 50 or 20 minutes is just
the tip of the iceberg
although much is needed to be done but
we have made phenomenal progress in the
last decade look at the progress we have
in HIV in Neurology in oncology in fact
in fact liver in Dynasty in personalized
medicine all these amazing things and
using tools and data from newly emerging
field for example genomics proteomics
next-generation sequencing machine
learning I am very confident that the
next decade of drug discovery will be
equally astounding our ability to create
new and better drug will increase very
very dramatically so to all those young
researchers especially Indra discovery
this is your time do your part to help
translate science into medicine
step up go out and make a difference
you
