
[Applause]
rapturous intoxicating commanding an
earthquake of sound bursting beneath my
fingers transporting me this was my
first experience playing on this 200
year old cello
[Music]
I had stepped into another era the faces
of all who had played this cello flashed
before me I heard their songs I felt
their bow on the string and I heard
their dance like fingers drumming
calloused from their tireless commitment
to this instrument this exquisitely
carved piece of wood the product of
passion and precision and as I played I
heard their stories
I watched them grow up open their hearts
and fall in love yes these notes new
passion
I watched youth fade into wisdom on
their deep wrinkled faces change war and
loss I felt their hearts break yes these
notes to new pain
[Music]
my friends told me save yourself the
stress the failure and the humiliation
and just buy a cheaper cello I would
hear with that money you could buy a
house not quite in San Francisco but you
can go with you there and every voice on
the inside told me it was impossible to
fear had me chained against its walls
but no matter how much I tried to say no
this cello would not let go of me
it had a bigger question for me was I
ready to step up I came to realize it
wasn&#39;t about stepping away from stress
hardwork failure or humiliation it was
about turning toward my dreams it was
about not settling for Less just because
I was so afraid and it was about doing
whatever it took to buy this cello
because I had a vision to impact
humanity through sound and it wasn&#39;t
really my choice anymore
I had already been written into this
cellos story
[Music]
thank you
[Applause]
