
[Music]
imagine the following sin summer Monday
afternoon you are the golden swimming
pool the most famous and beautiful
swimming pool in Israel located less
than 200 metres from the beautiful sandy
beaches of Tel Aviv you are surrounded
with like-minded people tel-aviv
hipsters some tourists some pensioners
people who can afford spending a regular
weekday at the pool you get up you
stretch and as you are about to go into
the water for another swim something
strange catches your eyes a group of 50
work immigrants from Africa has entered
the pools gates they look so different
than anyone else that a fuss is created
around them who are these people the
guard at the gate is confused but they
all have paid tickets and brand new
bathing suits and are about to go in the
establishment now if you were in that
pool that day what would you do a stay
in the water nothing unusual happens or
be leave the pool at once that event
happened a few a few years ago it was an
organised event it was organized by a
group of right-wing activists who hired
the immigrants to go to the pool that
day they wanted to demonstrate the
hypocrisy of Tel Aviv&#39;s white and
privileged who speak so highly on human
equality but will not want to share
space with black people from Africa and
I remember reading about this thinking
that if I was there that day no doubt
that I would have stayed in the water
and tried to befriend the newcomers and
how strange it is that so many people
that were there went out I was always
fascinated by the gap in how people
perceive themselves and their actions
they sometimes tell a different story
and I want to make games that will
confront players with actions and maybe
tells them something new about them
so it&#39;s a little bit like these
BuzzFeed&#39;s personality quizzes but
instead of telling people which
character of the TV show friends they
resemble the most show them how racially
biased they might be so the game that we
came up with was a game that is called
protect the neighborhood because this is
what you do in the game in the game you
are a cop you have a gun and you&#39;re
supposed to shoot threats as fast as
they appear and spare the innocent
targets
however while some targets look like
this average white high tech dude others
look like this stereotypical Arab so
players are trying to do their best and
shoot the threats as fast as they appear
and not shoot the innocent ones however
we didn&#39;t really care about misfires we
measured one importer to metric that we
called time to trigger how much time
does it take the player to shoot an Arab
looking target versus a white looking
target and as it turned out the majority
of players shot Arab looking targets
faster than white looking targets how
fast thirty five percent faster now the
reaction of players that have played the
game was complete disbelief denial this
cannot be the game is rigged but it was
not we measured real performance data
moreover I did not make this up this
phenomena is called implicit racism and
it was verified in various experiments
the biggest was an online experiment the
two million people engaged in over the
Internet and it showed clearly that
participants showed targets more often
and faster when these targets were black
rather than white
I just localized this experiment to the
Israeli test the game is not rigged we
are rigged however the game proved this
point successfully we failed miserably
in distribution it turned out that
people are proud to share online quizzes
that through
that there are Ross from friends rather
than online games that cause them racist
to their faces well you live you learn
but I wanted to make another game and
around that time in Israel there was a
lot of fuss because of an israeli
parliament member who called for
segregation in hospitals delivery rooms
he said that the Arabs were making too
much noise and it is only natural that
his wife would not want to share rooms
with an Arab baby who might grow up and
kill her own in 20 years he said that
and my mind was blown away because
nobody really condemned the guy maybe
because it&#39;s just words you know people
speak I speak everybody speak this is a
natural thing we talk so I wanted to
attach actions to these words and
another depressing game was in the
making and this new game the players
were requested to help this parliament
member now in doctors uniforms to do the
segregations
in the hospital Jewish mothers to be
would go right
Arabs mothers to be would go left and
says racism is racism Ethiopian would go
up to the attic and Sudanese down out of
the hospital the game mechanics are
fairly simple ID cards pop on screen and
by the patient&#39;s picture surname name
and other data players who determine
which race this ID belongs to and swipe
at the right direction so when we just
came out with the game it was perceived
as twisted power they may be a joke but
players that play the game report on an
intense experience because you cannot
play this game without this inner voice
telling you what to do she looks like an
Arab she should go left she looks more
with the European the Sudanese up to the
attic she goes and this inner voice it&#39;s
your voice and it starts speaking at you
very fast in 15 seconds of play
you&#39;re already overwhelmed by your own
racist voice
to my surprise this game was a hit we
became viral in a few hours and not
before long hundred thousand of Israelis
with zina Slee sorting women at the
virtual hospital I have learned that
under certain conditions implicit racism
tends to be explicit racism all that is
needed is a little push towards the edge
I can totally understand how ideas of
nationalism and discrimination appeal to
so many people because the base is their
implicit risk racism exists and it is
everywhere even if we don&#39;t feel it or
see it or want to believe in its
existence so what can we do I won&#39;t
leave you hanging because there is hope
and the first step would be to
acknowledge the situation and the second
would be to design our conditions
differently to design conditions that
will force us to communicate conditions
that will force us to build bridges
instead of walls and it is not easy
building these conditions it&#39;s scary
luckily we can practice in virtual
worlds before we do it in the real world
and again I&#39;m looking at video games and
on this castle you see this castle was
built on the Minecraft platform it&#39;s a
big online game but the fact unique
about this castle is that it was built
by people who were supposed to be
enemies this castle was built by a 50/50
mix group of Jewish and Arabs youngsters
teenagers from all over the Middle East
that answered a call to put their heads
together fix what the adults have
screwed up and built something build
something together and they were
speaking in three different languages
Arabic Hebrew English they had to
structure blocks in the 3d space they
had to plan they had to communicate and
it was not easy but here it is big and
beautiful Debian - all the hateful
species that are so popular in Israel
and outside of it this initiative by the
games for peace organization proves
that under certain conditions people who
are supposed to be enemies play
amazingly well together in games that
feature guns people excel at shooting
other races faster than their own and in
other games that features and promote
segregation people excel at sorting and
discriminating other people and in games
that features creativity and
conversation Jews and Arabs build
wonderful things together it is our
responsibility to choose which games we
play and if these games do not exist to
go out and create them thank you very
much
[Applause]
