
[Applause]
who knows how much a penny weighs
a penny weighs 2.5 grams it is the same
as holding 5 paper clips in the palm of
your hand or the equivalent of 4 playing
cards can anyone guess how much 5118
pennies way that is twenty six point
four five pounds which is the equivalent
of two adult Maltese your average
two-year-old or nine boxes not cases of
wine why do I know the exact amount of
5118 pennies because in 2016 that is how
many pennies we found and by we I&#39;m
referring to my brother my co-workers a
group of friends and myself we fondly
refer to ourselves as change finders
pennies nickels dimes quarters paper
money foreign money little odds and ends
that might be money we stop whatever we
are doing we bend down and we pluck up
these treasures how and why are we doing
this the answer is mom mom firmly
believed in the expression find of Henny
pick it up you would not believe how
quickly my mother could move if she saw
something glittering on the ground that
might be mine
after she lost her battle with cancer
four years ago my brother continued in
the tradition of picking up pennies
he found $40 that first year it&#39;s not a
large chunk of change however this was
money picked up off of dirty floors and
out of filthy puddles from parking
meters and under vending machines and I
know this because my nano technologist
brother tracks this all in a spreadsheet
the type of coin the mintage where the
coin was found providing a statistical
analysis on change these graphs go in
our annual family report on spare change
just like any company would have a
shareholder report yes yes we are
obsessed with looking for money on the
ground we put that $40 aside because we
were gonna use it to throw a keg party
charge our friends admission and then
donate all the money to cancer research
there are 10 to 15 of us regularly
involved in this money scavenger hunt
that has traveled the globe picking up
filthy coins and crumpled bills we store
our money in jars and Ziploc baggies we
get together to count it record the
statistics and roll it first quarter
returns 150 dollars if my brother could
find $40 in a year collectively how much
more
we find likely enough coin to host a
nicer party charge more and then donate
more money back to cancer research so I
contribute because I am a marathon
runner I run about 1,200 miles a year
and on my daily morning runs I find all
kinds of money dirty moldy flat
sometimes shiny vents with holes in it
generally unrecognizable as money and I
pick up every last cent this has earned
me a nickname in my neighborhood dirty
money and throughout the past 18 months
looking for spare change has changed my
world I am aware and have noticed the
neighborhood around my house because I&#39;m
out looking for pennies I walk my dog
more because I&#39;m out looking for pennies
I talked to my neighbors more when I&#39;m
out looking for pennies I mean I know
who my neighbors are because I put my
phone away to look for pennies and
started engaging in the world around me
Oh a penny is an oft-repeated expression
of happiness in fact it is written on
the whiteboard that hangs in my office
my coworkers
they support this habit they frequently
contribute to it my CEO brings me coins
I have fortune 500 executives that text
me pictures of quarters that they&#39;ve
picked up off the ground my
father-in-law owes me 21 cents that he
found walking into the gym last week
my husband grabs pennies my niece looks
for dimes and my running group is
learning the fine art of spotting
nickels in cracks of the street as we
run up and down Peachtree and this mmm
this is why I know how much 5118 pennies
way that&#39;s Peachtree Center in case
you&#39;re wondering there was 11 cents
under there all that small change it
matters our team found four hundred and
nineteen dollars on the ground last year
we
[Applause]
we were so inspired that instead of
hosting a keg party
we each chipped in money of our own so
that we could donate that new and larger
amount to a local nonprofit that could
then apply it to make an immediate
impact on someone in need our decision
resonated outside of our social group
and we attracted an anonymous donor who
matched us penny for penny the new
amount we gave twelve hundred dollars to
charity last year
I think my mom always knew it was about
more than just the pennies it was a game
it was a competition it was a way to
pass a tradition on to her children it
was how we learned how to celebrate her
spirits and more importantly how he
learned to honor her legacy it&#39;s how we
make friends and it&#39;s also how we spend
family dinners because this quirky habit
sparks conversations it elicits giggles
and it makes you really aware of your
surroundings it allows this really
common object the opportunity to connect
motivate and inspire and to think it all
started with just a penny thank you guys
very much
[Applause]
you
