
[Music]
you
September 2017 the world witness
strongest hurricane in the Atlantic
hurricane Emma
hurricane Emma left a trail of death and
destruction throughout the Caribbean two
weeks later another hurricane a category
5 hurricane Maria hurricane Maria
hampered any sort of recovery after Emma
and caused even further death and
destruction I look at the agony on the
faces of the people who had lost
everything during those storms and I
asked are we ready for change climate
change
I am Rehanna a wetlands ecologist from
Trinidad and Tobago and I want to tell
you a little bit about my experience my
parents were poor but they were good
providers so we never had to do without
food shelter and the opportunity to go
to school I grew up really sheltered in
my little world that I never realized
how other people were struggling to make
ends meet on a daily basis my dad was a
vendor the central markets and a taxi
driver and when I wanted to go to
university he funded me after graduation
I was fortunate to get a job at the
institute of marine affairs a
government-funded research institution
here in Trinidad I remember the first
time I went into the mangrove swamp to
do research and I saw the traps for the
crabs and I restarted to release the
crop thinking that I was doing something
good
I was saving their lives and I
discovered that the crop that we buy for
curry crab and dumpling they came from
the mangroves and not the market one day
our board captain saw me releasing these
crops from the traps and he asked me mr.
onna
when you release these crabs what is the
crab project
going to do and sell so that he could
provide to his family the same kind of
opportunity that your father provided to
you that was an eye-opener for me that
really was a change in points in my life
because for the first time I was able to
see the connection between our
environment and the services that it
provided to us which included livelihood
opportunity for many the fishes the crab
catchers the oyster man and woman they
harvest their products from the magu
mangroves and they bring it to the
markets in order to make a living now I
have been doing research on the marine
environment for the far past 20 years
and have not only learned about
ecosystems and science I&#39;ve learned a
lot about people now I have a passion
for mangrove research that people don&#39;t
understand so much so that they referred
to me as the mangrove woman so mangrove
trees they grow along our coastline in
salty water they form complex habitats
but they provide us with numerous
services these include providing habitat
for a variety of species including
commercially important shrimp and
shellfish bush shellfish and fish
they&#39;re nurseries for juveniles they
helpful to our water they help absorb
carbon dioxide but most importantly
mangroves break up storms by dissipating
wind and wave energy and it protects
against coastal erosion now I have been
to every mangrove swamp in general and
Tobago and I have seen how these
wetlands have been degraded over time
more importantly I have seen the poorest
people living in and depending on these
mangroves for their livelihoods
these are the crabcatchers the fishes
the oyster man and
that live along our coast clearing
mangrove trees so they can bill sharks
they have no amenities electricity
running water they are the lam laughs
and many times when it&#39;s hired as hide
their homes are flooded because of where
they live in their daily struggle to
survive I wonder if they even consider
how vulnerable they are to change
climate change Burma Jose Maria why
don&#39;t we believe it or not our climatic
conditions are changing climate change
is not something way off in the future
we are seeing the impacts today for
instance we are having more intense
rainfall the amount of rain that falls
ten minutes today was equivalent to rain
that would have felt over an hour 15
years ago and with these intense
rainfall we have more flooding and
landslides something unities are flooded
on a daily basis especially in the wet
season our coastlines are eroding and
this is going to accelerate with sea
level rise and storm surges 70% of our
population live on the course and people
have already started to lose their land
to the sea and are very scared for the
safety of their house and their families
what are there to do if they cannot
afford expensive coastal protection
structures we are also seeing more
frequent and intense hurricanes and
hurricane Park is moving further south
making us even more vulnerable according
to an inter-american Development Bank
study between 2005 and 2015 the number
of climate related natural disasters
that occurred in Trinidad and Tobago
increase by five full we had five times
more disaster in ten years
now our mongrel forest is our first line
of defense against the impacts of
climate change sea level rise and storm
surge but more importantly they break up
storms by dissipating when then we have
energy but in Trinidad and Tobago we
have already lost more than 50% of our
mangroves we have converted up to homes
industry highway text and the city when
we lose these ecosystem we lose these
services they provide to us such as
coastal protection I wonder if we even
realize how important a little better
mangrove we have remaining or to our
survival on this island I think as
scientists we have failed to effectively
communicate the value of our environment
to the people especially the fact that
we need to conserve it so that it can
continue to protect us against the
impacts of climate change and providers
with livelihood opportunities climate
change is our new reality and we cannot
stop the changes and although we cannot
say with certainty when and how intense
they are going to be we have to adapt
and become resilient resilience is our
ability to recover after a natural
disaster or extreme event to build
resilience we must first understand our
problem once we understand our
vulnerability then we can act look at
innovative solution
or even at best practices that other
societies around the world are putting
in place to help lessen the impact of
climate change we must change our
behavior and stop being so complacent
azide has done their selling author said
the big problem is that we think that we
can solve complex problems by changing
everything but ourselves we need to
change ourselves because we have a
responsibility to protect our families
especially in these uncertain times we
need to arm ourselves with knowledge so
that we can make informed decisions
about where and how we live
not on riverbanks on the sandy shore
where we expose our loved ones to the
elements if we live in land that is
prone to flooding then we need to build
on stilts and we need to stop blocking
our water courses and our river mouths
for people who already live in low-lying
area when you&#39;re here for a cane woman
to plan a party move your family to
safer grounds by relatives or in a
shelter listen to what the authorities
are saying during these periods it can
save life more importantly we need to
stop the degradation of our natural
environment like our mangroves we need
to stop clearing them and putting our
pollution in it when we litter and our
rivers and our beaches till it ends up
in our mangroves and it causes
degradation healthy mangrove help reduce
risk against natural disasters we need
to come together civil society the
government private sector
to help protect our mangrove and we&#39;re
necessarily rehabilitate them all around
the world people have understood the
value of the mangrove especially with
regards to protect him the shoreline and
providing protection for their property
and there are many initiative to do
replanting projects they even call it a
fancy name is now green infrastructure
we need to put in some green
infrastructure we also need to help the
most vulnerable in our society there&#39;s
our fishes our oyster vendors our crop
harvesters we need to teach them new
ways to harvest their produce without
destroying the mangrove we need to teach
them new skills or new techniques for
instance Maori culture where they can
grow them in ponds that way they can
continue to ply their trade without
causing further destruction in some
areas as I mentioned we need to teach
them very new skills to be taught
Pareto&#39;s entrepreneurs farmers and even
new things like how to produce honey in
the mangrove I&#39;ve seen that being done
in Vienna and it&#39;s a really good honey
by the way we need to teach them how to
be more resilient now the accelerated
changes in our climate that we are
experiencing is all human induced and we
all have contributed in one way or the
other and although we may feel hopeless
because even if we reduce our carbon
emissions today the concentration
concentrations that are already in our
atmosphere are going to cause impact we
need to still think of our future if we
continue with a business-as-usual
attitude and don&#39;t try to curb our
pollution and our degradation our future
would even be more catastrophic more ice
caps are going to melt sea levels are
going to rise higher and islands like
ours could become fully submerge
is that the future we want to leave for
our children grandchildren and
generations to come
I certainly don&#39;t want to be a climate
change refugee if we want to continue
our way of life living on the islands we
need to act now we need to take action
to help stop the degradation of our
environment we need to protect our
mangroves so that they can continue to
protect us from the impacts of climate
change and provide livelihood
opportunities for the very poor and
vulnerable we need to prepare for change
climate change because when it becomes
urgent it will be already too late
thank you
[Applause]
