
welcome we go on a diet count every
calorie we eat and try to stay within
the recommended caloric limit we lose a
few pounds and after some time our
weight is back again isn&#39;t this a story
of your life yeah two out of three
Americans are either overweight or obese
and obesity is a leading driver of many
preventable diseases and health care
costs currently in the United States
estimates go to nearly 250 billion
dollars per year and individual costs of
obesity are also significant
according to colors in calories out
theory obesity is a simple matter of
eating too many calories what&#39;s wrong
with it
when looking to lose body weight many
people cut on fat because it&#39;s the most
caloric component of our diet even
though it&#39;s true that weight gain is
caused by caloric excess and weight loss
is caused by caloric deficit this is
still such a drastic oversimplification
the fact is that different foods have
different effect on our body and go
through different metabolic pathways
before turning into energy
the real problem is focusing on caloric
content of foods we eat and disregarding
their metabolic effect therefore we
shouldn&#39;t automatically assume that food
with low fat is better for you or will
help you lose weight many low fat
and fat-free foods can give you more
than you bargained for why when fat is
removed more sugar is added to make the
food taste better and we enjoy our
morning fat-free yogurt but when we do a
little calculation we can see that only
one serving of fat-free yogurt delivers
more than 50% of daily recommended
amount of added sugar at the beginning
of our day we are already more than
halfway through our daily limit for
added sugar with just one cup of
fat-free yogurt and this is just one
example of fat-free foods seducing us
during the day it is recommended to
limit added sugar to 6 teaspoons for a
woman and 9 teaspoons for a man per day
but average American consumes 23
teaspoons per day and the recommended
amount of added sugar is not even
labeled in nutrition facts as a result
we eat too much sugar three times too
much my research team at the University
of Georgia in Athens is focusing on a
neural gut brain communication using rot
as an animal model why rat because both
rotten human have similar neural
connections between the gut and the
brain we are specifically interested in
a vagus nerve because the vagus nerve is
a two-way street between the gut and the
brain signals running from the guard up
the vagus nerve to the brain affect our
perception of hunger and fullness
signals running from the brain down the
vagus to the gut affect digestion
secretion of digestive enzymes and bowel
movement
therefore
any interruption in avigal godwyn
communication may lead to obesity
recently God bacteria has added long
overlooked component to the complex
bi-directional signaling between the gut
and the brain triggering a tremendous
interest in the field of obesity
research changes in a diet composition
can rapidly trigger changes in a gut
bacteria composition interestingly if we
take god bacteria from obese animals and
Transplant to germ-free animals with no
doubt bacteria they become obese when we
take out bacteria from lean animals and
Transplant to germ-free animals they
become lean this identifies gut bacteria
as a potential driver of diet induced
obesity in our recent project we
investigated the effect of high-fat
high-sugar and low fat high sugar diets
on gut bacteria gut brain vagal
communication and body fat accumulation
our high-fat high-sugar diet
imitates standard American or western
diet while low fat high sugar diet
mimics commonly consumed low fat
products our results revealed that
control rats consuming low fat low sugar
diet didn&#39;t gain significant amount of
body fat over four weeks of the study as
we expected rats consuming high fat high
sugar diets gain significantly more body
fat but surprisingly brats consuming low
fat high sugar diet gains significantly
more about different than control rats
while consuming fewer color
additionally we found that rats
consuming high sugar diet needed
significantly fewer calories to generate
the same amount of body fat therefore
you can see that color is in calories
out theory is not working properly
focusing on the quantity and
disregarding the quality of food we eat
may be the main reason for obesity
epidemic next we found that consumption
of high sugar diets increase the
population of entero toxic bacteria
elevating levels of enterotoxin LPS and
pro-inflammatory molecules our results
revealed that this triggered gut
inflammation increased gut permeability
and fat accumulation in the liver all
these diet induced changes may
compromise gut function and lead to
obesity in the last step of our study we
found that rats consuming high sugar
diets
develop inflammation in the vagus nerve
and brain centers responsible for food
intake this altered vagal gut brain
communication and was leading to
increase body fat accumulation and
eventual obesity so long story short we
conclude that consumption of high sugar
diets is increasing the population of
pro-inflammatory bacteria in the gut
gastrointestinal inflammation is
triggering a cascade of events leading
to inflammatory risk
in avigal gut-brain communication and
brain centers responsible for food
intake and this is reflected by
increased body fat accumulation and
eventual obesity as you can see obvious
are overweight people can just eat less
and expect automatically to lose body
fat eating too much sugar may be toxic
to our body but many sugar defenders say
that since year 2000 the sugar
consumption is going down but obesity
rates are still going up and they
present the graph where these two trends
are going in opposite directions as you
can see it&#39;s visual a convincing graph
it let me wonder about the relevance of
our results to obesity but many years
ago I learned that if you want the truth
then go to this source and I did I
checked and in fact according to USDA
data the total amount of added sugar
consumption is declining since year 2000
but situation of obesity is looking
slightly different according to National
Center for Health Statistics the
observed change in adult obesity between
year 2011 and 14 was not statistically
different
additionally the obesity rate in
children didn&#39;t change since 2003 so you
can see that obesity rates are slowing
down since year 2000 as
specially in children the population
born after year 2000 and why is so
important to look at the youth
population because they were by average
exposed to lower doses of added sugar in
their diet and going back to findings
from our laboratory they probably
experience less damage to their liver
less severe inflammation and their
damage to vagal gut brain communication
was not significant and strong enough to
completely destroy neural mechanism of
regulating energy intake and expenditure
let&#39;s look at the numbers this 80%
reduction slowed down the obesity rate
by an impressive 30% in adults and 45%
in children so why is so difficult to
lose body fat and stay lean because our
neural mechanism regulating energy
intake and expenditure is damaged by
eating too much sugar while sugar is
necessary for healthy life and the
consumption trend is going in the right
direction we still consume more than 300
percent of daily recommended amount of
added sugar instead of counting every
calorie you eat count every gram of
added sugar because according to the all
toxicology Maxim the dose makes the
poison thank you very much
[Applause]
[Music]
